GOOD
EVENING EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO
THE MARCH 3RD MEETING AT THE
ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG
OF MY NATION UNDER GOD
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL.
>> WHEN OUR CLERK PLEASE CALL
THE ROLE OF COUNSEL MEMBER DISH
YES.
HERE SORRY COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON ABSENT COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON YOUR COUNCIL MEMBER
MALIK HERE COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
HERE COUNCIL MEMBER GODSE EDWYN
HERE MAYOR TAYLOR HERE,
COUNCILMAN BRIARD HERE, COUNCIL
MEMBER ACKMANN HERE, COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGG'S ABSENT COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL HERE WE HAVE A
QUORUM AND A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WANTONNESS LIKE MY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION
ON TABLE OPPOSED THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED IN TERMS OF FOLKS IN
THE HOUSE I BELIEVE THERE ARE
FOLDING CHAIRS OVER THERE IF
PEOPLE ARE STANDING YOU'RE
WELCOME TO STAND.
IF YOU ARE NOT INTERESTED IN
STANDING THERE ARE FOLDING
CHAIRS OVER THERE, PLEASE MAKE
YOURSELF MAKE YOURSELF
COMFORTABLE.
I KNOW THERE ARE A BUNCH
OF SIGNS SIGNS ARE PERFECTLY
FINE.
WE DO ASK THAT SIGNS BE HELD AT
OR BELOW SHOULDER LEVEL SO AS
TO ENSURE THAT FOLKS BEHIND YOU
CAN SEE IF YOU'RE IN THE BACK
ROW HOLD THEM AS HIGH AS YOU
WISH.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> DO HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
KNOW MAYOR TODAY WE HAVE I
BELIEVE AN UPDATE FROM THE
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION VICE CHAIR
VICE CHAIR OPPERMANN OTHMAN.
>> CAN YOU PLEASE RAISE YOUR
HAND NATSUME
PLEASE UNMUTED GO
GILLIAMS MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS.
MY NAME IS MAHMOUD OTHMAN.
I'M THE PORCUPINE'S CHAIR AND
INFORMATION MANAGER
SUBCOMMITTEE CHAIR.
I COULDN'T MEET AT THE MEETING
IN PERSON THIS EVENING.
WE JUST STARTED THE FASTING
MONTH OF RAMADAN ON SATURDAY.
CHILLICOTHE'S SINCERE GREETINGS
TO REPORT UPDATES.
THE COMMISSIONERS ARE WORKING
ON THE TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
ANNUAL REPORT.
WE EXPECT TO HAVE THAT DONE
SOON HOPING BY THE AND BY YOUR
NEXT APRIL MEETING THE REPORT
WILL BE PUBLICLY AVAILABLE TO
ALL TO THE COUNCIL AS WELL AS
THE COMMUNITY
FAQ AND THE
RECENT MONTHS ADOPTED THE CALL
CODE OF ETHICS SINCE FOR THE
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR
CIVILIAN OVERSIGHT OF LAW
ENFORCEMENT WE ARE ONE
OF THIRTY OVERSIGHT COMMISSIONS
THAT ADOPTED THE CODE OF ETHICS
AND WE ARE THE ONLY ONE FROM
THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
THE OUTREACH COMMITTEE
SUBCOMMITTEE IS WORKING ON
SOCIAL JUSTICE SYMPOSIUM
COMMUNITY EVENT THAT'S GOING TO
BE ME FOR A SECOND LOCATION
MILLET'S CREEK LIBRARY BRANCH.
>> THE EVENT WILL BE NAMED
AFTER THE JUDGE WALTON WHO WAS
MURDERED NEARLY TWO YEARS AGO
WAS ONE OF THE ORIGINAL
COMMISSIONERS.
THE SYMPOSIUM IS AN AGGRESSION
OF HER SERVICE IN THE COMMUNITY
AND ECHO PARK MORE DETAILS WILL
BE AVAILABLE AND PROVIDED AND
THE COMING FEW WEEKS AND ALL
COUNSELORS AND COMMUNITY ARE
INVITED TO ATTEND THIS EVENT
INFORMATION SUBCOMMITTEE MADE
UPDATES TO THE NUMBERING SYSTEM
OF THE CITIZENS COMPLAINTS
FILED BY THE PARK OR APD THE
THIS STREAMLINE THE PROCESS AND
AVOID ANY KIND OF CONFLICT AND
OF COMPLAINTS.
WE ARE RECEIVING QUITE A BIT
FROM BOTH SIDES THE LAPD AS
WELL AS FROM AND SOMETIMES WE
HAVE THE SAME NUMBER BUT
DIFFERENT COMPLAINTS ALSO WE
ARE UPDATING THE INFORMATION
YOUR REPORT FORMAT TO THE
CONTENT AP INVESTIGATIVE REPORT
ON ANOTHER ISSUE HERE IS THE
TRANSPARENCY MEETINGS CHIEF
ANDERSON HAS SET UP A SYSTEM BY
WHICH INFORMATION MANAGERS CAN
MEET EVERY OTHER MONTH AND THE
DEPARTMENT OFFICERS TO REVIEW
OF UNREDACTED POLICE REPORTS
AND BODY WORN CAMERA VIDEOS.
THE FIRST OF THIS TRANSPARENCY
MEETINGS WAS HELD RECENTLY AND
ALLOWED FOR AN INTERACTION
BETWEEN PARK INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT AND THE DEPARTMENT.
WE FOUND IT TO BE VERY USEFUL
AND ENCOURAGED BY ITS SUCCESS
IN THE FUTURE.
WE THANK CHIEF ANDERSON AND HIS
LEADERSHIP TEAM FOR BEING
RECEPTIVE TO A REQUEST PARK
WELCOMES.
WE'RE SORRY BUT WELCOMES
COUNCIL NO HERE AS THE NEW
COUNCIL ON AND LOOKING FORWARD
TO HERE INPUT ON BEHALF OF THE
CHAIR AND THE REST OF THE
COMMISSIONERS.
I WOULD LIKE TO THANK YOU FOR
GIVE THE FLOOR TO PRESENT THIS
UPDATE THIS EVENING AND IF
THERE ARE ANY ISSUES QUESTIONS
ENTERTAIN OTHERWISE THIS IS ALL
A BIG SUPPORT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, VICE
CHAIR.
GRATEFUL FOR YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
AT PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME
ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING THE CITY
CLERK.
SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN
THIRTY SECONDS ARE REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
I'LL NOTE WE HAVE TWENTY NINE
PERSONS SIGNED UP FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT TODAY.
THE WAY THAT PUBLIC COMMENT
WORKS IS THAT WE RESERVE THE
FIRST 45 MINUTES BEFORE THE
MEETING FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
THAT MEANS WE WILL RUN THROUGH
PUBLIC COMMENT FOR FOR EITHER
OF THE FIRST FIFTEEN SPEAKERS
OR FOR FORTY FIVE MINUTES
WHICHEVER GIVES THE ABILITY
HERE FOR MOST MORE PEOPLE FOLKS
WHO HAVE SIGNED UP FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT WHO ARE NOT IN THAT
FIRST TRANCHE WILL BE HEARD AT
PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW WHICH
IS AT THE TAIL END OF THE
MEETING.
IT WILL BE ON YOUR AGENDA AS
YOU SEE AFTER OUR CLOSED
SESSION.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
MILTON BAKER.
MAYOR TAYLOR AND MEMBERS
OF COUNCIL.
I REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR GIVING
ME THE OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK.
MY NAME IS MILTON BAKER AND I
LIVE ON AT SIX TWENTY GREENE
ROAD IN ANN ARBOR AND I WANT TO
TALK TODAY ABOUT MY SUPPORT FOR
THE MUNICIPAL ASSOCIATION STUDY
.
I THINK IT'S SAFE TO SAY THAT
WE CAN ALL AGREE THAT DETROIT
EDISON REALLY HASN'T MET
CUSTOMER EXPECTATIONS RELATING
TO PRICING RELATING TO DELIVERY
OF SERVICE RELATING
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND THERE'S
REALLY NOTHING THAT WE CAN DO
AS CITIZENS OTHER THAN
MUNICIPAL ASSOCIATION.
SO A KEY QUESTION GOING FORWARD
IS IS MUNICIPAL TAXATION GOOD
FOR THE CITIZENS OF ANN ARBOR?
AND ANOTHER QUESTION IS HOW ARE
WE GOING TO KNOW IF IT'S GOOD
GOING FORWARD?
>> AND DTI HAS ALREADY DONE A
STUDY AND THEY'VE ALREADY SAID
IT'S NOT GOOD FOR ANN ARBOR BUT
HOW ARE WE GOING TO KNOW ONE
WAY OR THE OTHER AND THAT WE DO
KNOW THERE ARE COMMUNITIES IN
THE STATE THAT DO HAVE
MUNICIPAL IZATION.
IT'S WORKING VERY WELL.
SO THE ONLY WAY THAT WE'RE
GOING TO BE ABLE TO MAKE AN
INTELLIGENT JUDGMENT ABOUT
WHETHER OR NOT MUNICIPAL
CAUSATION IS GOOD FOR THE
CITIZENS GOING FORWARD IS IF WE
HAVE INFORMATION FROM AN
INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY STUDY
WHICH IS WHAT YOU'RE GOING TO
VOTE ON TONIGHT.
SO I'M GOING TO BE VERY BRIEF
AND SAY THAT I HOPE THAT YOU
WILL HELP EMPOWER US TO GET THE
INFORMATION WE NEED TO MAKE
INTELLIGENT DECISION ABOUT
MUNICIPAL CAUSATION BECAUSE
WITHOUT THIS STUDY AND WITHOUT
THIS INFORMATION, THE ONLY
THING WE'RE GOING TO BE ABLE TO
DO IS LOOK AT WHAT DETROIT
EDISON HAS PREVENTED AND THEN
THERE WILL BE A VOID
OF INFORMATION.
SO PLEASE EMPOWER US WITH THIS
INFORMATION BY VOTING FOR IT
TONIGHT.
IT'S A CRITICAL IT'S A CRITICAL
ISSUE GOING FORWARD TO THE
CITIZENS OF ANN ARBOR.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS EDELSTEIN'S
EDELSTEIN'S
GO AHEAD.
HELLO.
>> CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES, WE CAN.
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
I CAN COUNSEL THIS IS ELLA
EDELSTEIN, WARD ONE.
MY ADDRESS IS SIXTEEN THIRTY
FIVE LARRY DRIVE IN ANN HARBOR
.
I'M SPEAKING TODAY IN SUPPORT
OF DC ONE IN DC YOU PERTAINING
TO PUBLIC POWER AND THE STUDY
HAVING SOMEWHAT OF MY LIFE AS
AN RESIDENT I'M PAINFULLY
FAMILIAR WITH THE SHORTCOMINGS
OF OUR ELECTRIC PROVIDER.
>> IT WAS TIME AND TIME AGAIN
SHOWN US AND ALL OF ITS
CUSTOMERS THAT PROFITS AND
EXECUTIVE BONUSES ARE MORE
IMPORTANT IN THE WELL-BEING
OF RATEPAYERS WHILE US
RATEPAYERS ARE PLAGUED BY
FREQUENT OUTAGES MENTAL AND
FINANCIAL STRAIN ON RESIDENTS
OF OUR CITY PARTICULARLY THE
MOST VULNERABLE.
>> MEANWHILE TO INSTALL IN
TRANSITIONING TO RENEWABLE
POWER GENERATION ADVISE AS TO
BRAG ABOUT THE SUSTAINABILITY
INITIATIVE HONESTLY WE'RE BEING
FAILED AND WE CAN DO BETTER.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO THINK ABOUT
THE LONG TERM TO 20 TO 50 YEARS
DOWN THE LINE.
THESE PROBLEMS ARE NOT JUST
MAGICALLY DISAPPEAR AND LOTS
OF REGULATION AT THE FEDERAL
LEVEL IS ONLY GOING TO MAKE
THIS WORK.
SO REALLY THERE IS NO BETTER
TIME THAN NOW TO TAKE
MEANINGFUL ACTION ON CLIMATE
CHANGE AND AGAINST CORPORATE
POWER.
LET'S REMEMBER THE DATA IS NO
DIFFERENT THAN ANY OF THE OTHER
CORPORATIONS THAT HAVE GOTTEN
INTO THIS CLIMATE DISASTER.
NOW THEY'RE EMPLOYING THE SAME
NARRATIVE ST. POWER IS TOO
EXPENSIVE AND THAT WAS NOT THE
RIGHT TIME FOR THEY CONTINUE TO
EXTRACT MONEY FROM OUR
COMMUNITY.
THEY'RE CERTAINLY NOT COMING TO
SAVE US AND FRANKLY NOBODY
THERE IS NO TIME TO DELAY
PUTTING MONEY TOWARDS A
FEASIBILITY STUDY RIGHT NOW IS
ONE STEP TOWARDS THE FUTURE.
WE'RE ALL IN HAS RESILIENT
RENEWABLE POWER AND WE'RE READY
TO GO BACK INTO OUR COMMUNITIES
INSTEAD OF GOING INTO
SHAREHOLDER POCKETS.
>> SO CITY SO YOU HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO TAKE ACTION
TODAY TO IMPROVE THE LIVES
OF THEIR CONSTITUENTS BEHIND
PUBLIC POWER.
>> I ASK THAT YOU VOTE IN FAVOR
OF THESE TWO MEASURES DC ONE IN
DC TWO TONIGHT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR TIME
.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JEAN
BEVERAGE
.
>> GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JEAN LEVERAGE AND I
LIVE ON PULMONARY ROAD IN THE
FIFTH WARD AND I WANTED TO
SPEAK BRIEFLY TONIGHT IN
SUPPORT OF DC THREE AND DC
FOUR.
>> I'M VERY EXCITED ABOUT BOTH
OF THESE PROPOSED BALLOT
MEASURES AFTER SEVEN YEARS THE
ORIGINAL PROP EIGHT PROPONENTS
HAVE FAILED TO FULFILL THEIR
PROMISES ABOUT PRIVATE FUNDING
FOR A PARK ON THE SITE AND IT'S
MORE THAN REASONABLE TO TAKE
THIS QUESTION BACK TO THE
VOTERS.
PARTNERING WITH THE LIBRARY
WILL ACHIEVE MANY OF THE GOALS
SET OUT IN THIS ORIGINAL SET
OUT IN THE ORIGINAL PROPOSAL
WITH A PARTNER THAT HAS A LONG
AND SUCCESSFUL TRACK RECORD
OF BUILDING AND MANAGING
BEAUTIFUL AND FUNCTIONAL PUBLIC
SPACES.
>> I HAVE SEEN CLAIMS POSTED ON
SOCIAL MEDIA THAT DC THREE AND
FOUR ARE OVERWRITING THE WILL
OF THE PEOPLE AND THIS IS QUITE
CONFUSING TO ME BECAUSE
BRINGING THESE BALLOT MEASURES
TO A VOTE IS THE DEFINITION
OF RESPECTING THE WILL OF THE
PEOPLE AND BOTH THE CITY
COUNCIL AND THE ANN ARBOR
DISTRICT LIBRARY BOARD WERE
ELECTED BY THE PEOPLE AND NOW
OUR ELECTED OFFICIALS ARE
ASKING THE PUBLIC TO MAKE A
DECISION THROUGH THIS VOTE AS
WRITTEN THE LANGUAGE OF THE
TWENTY EIGHTEEN CITY CHARTER
AMENDMENT WAS DEEPLY FLAWED
ASKING THE PEOPLE TO VOTE ON
THESE NEW AMENDMENTS UNDER THE
EGIS OF THE ANN HARBOR DISTRICT
LIBRARY AND THE CITY COUNCIL
WILL ENSURE THAT VOTERS ARE
INFORMED PROPERLY ON THE
DETAILS OF WHAT THEY ARE VOTING
FOR
.
THE SOCIAL MEDIA COMMENTATORS
WHO SAY OTHERWISE DO NOT
REPRESENT ANYONE BUT THEMSELVES
AND THEIR MOTIVES ARE MUCH LESS
CLEAR THAN THOSE OF THE PUBLIC
BODIES WHO ARE PUBLICLY DOING
THEIR JOBS IN PUBLIC.
BEFORE I GO TRYING TO KEEP REAL
BRIEF BECAUSE I KNOW THERE'S A
LOT OF PEOPLE TO HAVE A LOT TO
SAY BUT I WANT TO GIVE A QUICK
NOD TO FIVE AND DISCOURAGE THE
CITY FROM BACKPEDALING ON THE
VERY IMPORTANT GOAL OF SAFER
STREETS FOR EVERYONE.
I WANT TO ENCOURAGE CITY
COUNCIL TO PROVIDE BOTH
INSTRUCTION AND SUPPORT FOR
CITY STAFF WHO ARE OFTEN IN THE
POSITION OF EDUCATING THE
PUBLIC ABOUT BEST PRACTICES FOR
VISION ZERO.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS THOMAS
WEEDER.
GOOD EVENING.
SIX YEARS AGO I APPEARED HERE
AT THIS VERY SPOT TO CHALLENGE
CITY COUNCIL'S ADOPTION OF A
CAPTURED TAKE ON THE PROPOSED
CHARTER AMENDMENT RESERVING THE
LIBRARY LOT FOR PARK AND OPEN
SPACE.
I ARGUED THAT THE CITY CAPTION
WHICH COUNCIL PUT ON THE BALLOT
WAS MISLEADING MISLEADING
STATEMENTS LEADING DESCRIBE THE
PROPOSAL WHICH THE WITH A
DELIBERATE ATTEMPT TO DEFEAT IT
I REPRESENTED EXCUSE ME THE
CITIZENS GROUP WHICH PUT THE
PROPOSAL ON THE BALLOT.
THE CASE FOUND ITS WAY TO THE
MICHIGAN COURT OF APPEALS WHICH
TOOK LESS THAN 48 HOURS TO
GRANT OUR APPEAL AND ORDERED
THE REMOVAL OF THE INVALID
CAPTION HERE WE ARE AGAIN AND
THE SAME THING IS HAPPENING.
DO WE HAVE TO GO THROUGH THIS
AGAIN THIS TIME THE PROPOSAL IS
COMING FROM THE CITY COUNCIL
AND ONCE AGAIN IT IS PROPOSING
TO PUT ILLEGAL CAT AN ILLEGAL
CAPTION AND MISLEAD THE PUBLIC
SPECIFICALLY THE PROPOSED
CAPTION SAYS THAT THE CHARTER
WOULD BE AMENDED TO ALLOWING
THE CITY COUNCIL TO SELL ITS
INTEREST IN THE LIBRARY A LOT
TOO AND ONLY TO THE ANN ARBOR
DISTRICT LIBRARY QUOTE FOR THE
PURPOSE OF BUILDING A MIXED USE
DEVELOPMENT THAT INCLUDES
ADDITIONAL LIBRARY SERVICES,
HOUSING AND PROGRAMABLE OPEN
PUBLIC SPACE.
THIS LANGUAGE DOES NOT APPEAR
IN THE AMENDMENT ITSELF AND
WILL NOT APPEAR IN THE CHARTER.
>> SO THIS IS SUPPOSEDLY
AMENDING THE CHARTER TO DO
THESE THINGS EXCEPT THE
PROPOSAL ONLY SAYS THAT THE
COUNCIL MAY SELL THE PROPERTY
TO THE ADL WITH NO RESTRICTIONS
ON THAT APOWER PUT IN THE
CHARTER.
WHY SHOULD THE ADL BE GIVEN THE
EXCLUSIVE OPPORTUNITY TO
PURCHASE THE CITY PROPERTY
RATHER THAN THE CITY GIVING UP
THE USE OF THE PROPERTY TO A
VARIETY OFFER THE USE OF THE
OF THE PROPERTY TO A VARIETY
OF PROPOSALS FOR DIFFERENT
PARTIES?
>> WHY IS THIS BEING DONE?
I THINK THE ANSWER IS PRETTY
CLEAR.
I THINK THE COUNCIL FEARS THAT
IF THEY JUST WENT FOR A
STRAIGHT REPEAL OF THE TWENTY
EIGHTEEN AMENDMENT THAT THAT
WOULDN'T FLY.
SO INSTEAD WHAT WE DID WAS SAY
WELL WE'RE GOING TO TAKE THAT
AWAY BUT WE'RE GOING TO DO THIS
WONDERFUL THING WITH THE ANN
ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY EXCEPT
THAT WONDERFUL THING DOESN'T
EXIST AND WE DON'T REALLY KNOW
WHAT IT'S GOING TO BE AND
THERE'S SO MANY STEPS AWAY FROM
BEING A REALITY AND OF COURSE
WE HAVE COUNCIL MEMBERS AND
CITY ADMINISTRATORS SAY WELL
WE'RE NOT REALLY GOING TO SAY
WHAT IT'S GOING TO BE UNTIL
AFTER THE ELECTION.
I THINK THAT'S BACKWARDS.
I THINK THE PUBLIC SHOULD KNOW
WHAT IT'S GOING TO LOOK LIKE
BEFORE THEY VOTE ON THIS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ERIC
ZEFFIRA
.
>> GO AHEAD.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> I JUST WANTED TO START OUT
WITH SOME KUDOS.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THE CITY
WORKING WITH THE BEST LIBRARY
IN THE WORLD THE PLANET
ACTUALLY PLANNING FOR THE
FUTURE OF THE DOWNTOWN BRANCH.
>> I LOVE THE IDEAS THAT HAVE
BEEN PRESENTED SO FAR AND I
WOULD RATHER NOT KNOW, YOU
KNOW, 100 PERCENT SPECIFICS
BEFORE THIS IS GOING TO THE
VOTERS BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE WE
DON'T WANT TO TIE OUR HANDS
WITH WHAT WE CAN CREATE AT THIS
PLACE.
I TRUST THE LIBRARY THERE
WELL-KNOWN TO BE THE BEST
PUBLIC BODY SORRY IN THE CITY
AND THEY CAN PULL OFF THINGS
EVEN WITH THE HIGHEST
OF EXPECTATIONS.
SO I THINK THIS IS A GREAT MOVE
FOR OUR CITY.
>> BUT MY OTHER MAIN COMMENTS
ARE MOSTLY ABOUT FIVE.
>> THAT'S THE CONTRACT THAT
ENCOMPASSES SMALLER UTILITY
PROJECTS INCLUDING THAT HURTING
IN WALLINGFORD INTERSECTION
THAT'S BEEN PRETTY
CONTROVERSIAL RECENTLY.
>> I WOULD URGE YOU TO STICK TO
THE SAFETY PLAN AND NARROW THE
INTERSECTION DESPITE THE
RESIDENT CONCERNS IN MY VIEW
IT'S AN EQUITY ISSUE.
>> I THINK THIS IS A REALLY
SMALL INTERSECTION BUT IT'S
MUCH TOO WIDE FOR SAFETY AND
STAFF HAS PROPOSED A GOOD PLAN
FOR NARROWING IT.
IT JUST HAPPENS TO BE LOCATED
IN AN AREA WITH VERY WEALTHY
NEIGHBORS AND I CAN IMAGINE A
SIMILAR INTERSECTION BEING
REDESIGNED ON THE SOUTHEAST
SIDE OF TOWN PERHAPS AND I
DON'T THINK WE WOULD BE HAVING
THE SAME HYPERBOLIC DISCUSSION
THAT WE'RE HAVING WITH THE
NEIGHBORS HERE BY REPUBLICANS
FOR STRUCTURE REGARDLESS
OF MEANS IS THERE FOR THE
PUBLIC.
IT'S THERE FOR EVERYONE.
IT'S PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE, NOT
PRIVATE.
>> SO WHEN IT'S THE RIGHT THING
TO DO FOR SAFETY FOR EVERYBODY
INVOLVED TO NARROW IT, WE
SHOULD DO IT REGARDLESS OF WHO
LIVES NEARBY.
THIS REALLY SHOULD BE A LOW
STRESS ROUTE FOR BICYCLISTS AND
FOR PEDESTRIANS.
BUT IT'S NOT NOT THE WAY IT'S
DESIGNED RIGHT NOW.
I USE IT QUITE FREQUENTLY ON MY
BIKE TO GET FROM MY
NEIGHBORHOOD TO SOME FRIENDS
THAT LIVE OVER BY YORK AND I
PERSONALLY HAVE HAD CLOSE CALLS
HERE FROM DRIVERS WHO TREAT
THIS AS A SWEEPING CORNER
RATHER THAN AN INTERSECTION.
SO REDESIGNING IT TO SLOW DOWN
SPEEDS WILL BENEFIT ME BUT IT
WILL ALSO BENEFIT ANY OTHER
PERSON THAT HAPPENS TO USE THE
INTERSECTION SO I THINK WE
SHOULD STICK WITH WHAT WE KNOW
IS BEST REGARDLESS OF WHAT SOME
WEALTHY PEOPLE WANT IN THEIR
OWN BACKYARDS AND NARROW THE
INTERSECTION.
THIRTY SECONDS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MIKE NOVICK
RIGHT.
I'M ANXIOUS I MIGHT TALK FAST
SO MY NAME IS MIKE NOWAK.
I'M IN I LIVE IN THE FOURTH
WARD AND I SUPPORT THE MAYOR'S
PROPOSAL TO FUND THE PHASE TWO
FEASIBILITY STUDY TO DETERMINE
THE COST OF BUYING DTES
INFRASTRUCTURE IN ANN ARBOR TO
SEE IF WE CAN RUN OUR OWN
MUNICIPAL UTILITY.
I UNDERSTAND THAT THE STUDY IS
EXPENSIVE AND THAT WE LIVE IN
UNCERTAIN TIMES.
BUT REMEMBER THE COST OF THE
STUDY IS ABOUT ZERO POINT THREE
PERCENT OF THE TOTAL CITY
BUDGET OF FIVE HUNDRED SIXTY
FIVE MILLION AND OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR HAS STATED HE'S
WORKING TO COVER THE COST
OF THE STUDY BY SELLING RIGHTS
TO BUILD ON TOP OF ONE OF OUR
EXISTING CITY BUILDINGS.
IMAGINE THE FUTURE WE CAN HAVE
IF WE MAKE THIS INVESTMENT AND
DETERMINE THAT THE COST CAN BE
COVERED BY REVENUE BOND PAID
FOR BY PEOPLE BUYING THE POWER
FROM US INSTEAD OF DTT.
I SEE FOUR POSSIBILITIES.
FIRST, WE'LL BE MORE RESILIENT
AS A CITY ABLE TO REPAIR STORM
DAMAGE MORE QUICKLY WITH OUR
OWN LOCAL TRUCKS AND STAFF.
WE CAN ALSO MAKE OUR OWN
DECISIONS ON HOW TO MAKE THE
GRID STRONGER.
SECOND, WE CAN REACH OUR
CLIMATE GOALS MORE QUICKLY BY
BUYING POWER FROM RENEWABLE
SOURCES ON THE REGIONAL GRID
LIKE WIND FARMS AND THE THUMB
AREA.
I LOVE THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UTILITY AND I WANT THE EXCESS
POWER THAT MY ROOFTOP SOLAR
PANELS MAKE TO GO TO MY
NEIGHBORS INSTEAD OF TO DTG
PROFITS.
BUT WE KNOW FROM THE FIRST WE
KNOW FROM THE FIRST STUDY THAT
WE CAN ONLY MAKE ABOUT 10
PERCENT OF OUR POWER WITH
RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR.
THIRD, WE WILL PROMOTE ECONOMIC
JUSTICE BY OFFERING SPECIAL
RATES TO LOW INCOME FAMILIES
AND REFRAINING FROM
DISCONNECTING SERVICE IF THEY
FALL BEHIND IN TWENTY TWENTY
THREE THE ENERGY POLICY
INSTITUTE REPORTED THAT ENERGY
STANDS OUT AS ONE OF THE
NATION'S WORST UTILITIES FOR
DISCONNECTING POWER TO
CUSTOMERS.
FOURTH AND FINALLY, ANN ARBOR
WILL BE A LEADER IN PUBLIC
POWER WHEN WE OWN OUR OWN POWER
SYSTEM WE WILL BE A MODEL FOR
THE REST OF THE STATE AND OPEN
A PATHWAY FOR OTHER CITIES LIKE
YPSILANTI OR DEXTER OR EVEN
GRAND RAPIDS OR DETROIT TO MOVE
FORWARD AND EXPERIENCE THESE
POSSIBILITIES TOO.
BUT THE ONLY WAY TO GET TO
THESE BENEFITS IS TO START AND
THE PHASE TWO STUDY IS THE NEXT
STEP.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
YOUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DANIEL
SHLOSBERG
.
DTT HAS COMMERCIALS SAYING HOW
SOLAR FRIENDLY THEY ARE.
THEY ARE NOT AND ARE
INCREASINGLY LESS SOLAR
FRIENDLY.
>> WHEN MY DAD INSTALLED SOLAR
HE GOT NET METERING.
>> WHEN I INSTALLED SOLAR A
LITTLE LATER I GOT A
SUBSTANTIAL LESS FOR THE SOLAR
SOLD THAN I PAID WHEN I BOUGHT
ENERGY.
IF I PRODUCE TWO HUNDRED
KILOWATTS FROM MY SOLAR PANELS
AND I USE TWO HUNDRED KILOWATTS
IN THE SAME DAY I STILL HAVE TO
PAY DTT DTG USED TO PAY ONE
CENT PER KILOWATT HOUR MORE FOR
PEAK SOLAR THAN IT CHARGED FOR
OFF PEAK ENERGY.
I BOUGHT A BATTERY SO I COULD
CHARGE IT AT NIGHT AND SELL IT
BACK TO WHEN THEY NEEDED IT NOW
CHARGES MORE THAN IT PAYS
DURING PEAK DEMAND EITHER
THERE'S NO NEED FOR ENERGY
DURING PEAK TIMES AND WE SHOULD
BE PAID TO PROVIDE IT OR THERE
ISN'T AND WE SHOULDN'T BE
CHARGED EXTRA DURING PEAK
HOURS.
WE SHOULDN'T BE ALLOWED TO HAVE
BOTH WAYS DTT BLOCKS SOLAR
INSTALLATION THAT WOULD PROVIDE
MORE ELECTRICITY THAN A HOUSE
USES.
THEY ALSO DON'T PAY OUT IN CASH
BUT RATHER WITH A GENERATION
BANK.
THIS MAKES IT IMPOSSIBLE FOR
HOMEOWNERS TO EARN AN INCOME
FROM SOLAR.
WHEN I WAS GROWING WE HAD TWO
POWER OUTAGES ONE WHEN I WAS
FIVE AND ONE WHEN I WAS IN
COLLEGE.
LET THAT SINK IN FOR A MOMENT.
HOW MANY POWER OUTAGES HAVE YOU
HAD IN THE PAST YEAR?
I HAVE BATTERY BACKED SOLAR.
I DON'T HAVE POWER OUTAGES BUT
MY
DAD ONLY HAS SOLAR AND HIS
POWER GOES OUT.
I TRIED TO INSTALL A LINE FROM
MY HOUSE TO HIS SO HE COULD USE
MY BATTERY WHEN FAILED TO
PROVIDE DTI BLOCKED IT.
MY NEXT DOOR NEIGHBOR HAS SOLAR
ONLY WITH LET ME HELP HER OUT
IN A POWER OUTAGE THEY CAUSED
NO DTT HAS SHOWN AGAIN AND
AGAIN THEY DO NOT HAVE ANN
ARBOR CITIZENS BEST INTERESTS
AT HEART.
I URGE THE CITY COUNCIL TO GET
RID WITH ALL DUE HASTE TRAVIS
AYISHA YOU REPRESENT ME IN THE
THIRD WARD.
I URGE YOU ALONG WITH YOUR
FELLOW COUNCIL MEMBERS TO DO
ALL YOU CAN TO GET RID OF THANK
YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEX NO
GO
THERE YOU I'D LIKE TO TALK TO
YOU ON SEVERAL TOPICS TONIGHT
TO BEGIN ON SEE ONE ABOUT
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
I THINK THIS IS A GREAT START
BUT WE NEED MORE PLANNING
CODE IS STILL ACTIVELY HOSTILE
TO PEOPLE TRYING TO MAKE BETTER
USE OF THEIR HOMES A LOT THAT
ONLY BECAME NONCONFORMING
BECAUSE THE CITY CHANGED THE
ZONING RULES TO MAKE THEM SO
THE BIGGEST OFFENDER HERE IS
OUR UNNECESSARY SETBACK RULES
WHICH MAKE THE MAXIMUM
ALLOWABLE SIZE OF BUILDINGS IN
SUNLIGHT AND OUR CITY LITERALLY
SMALLER THAN A PERSON CAN STAND
IN LET ALONE ACTUALLY LIVING IN
.
NEXT I WANT TO SAY THANK YOU
FOR DC TOO.
I'M HOPEFUL THAT A
WELL-THOUGHT-OUT, CAREFULLY
PLANNED INDEPENDENT FROM DTT IS
VIABLE AFTER ALL, OVER 60
PERCENT OF ITS ENERGY COMES
FROM FOSSIL FUELS BUT IT NEEDS
TO BE BOTH OF THOSE BOTH
WELL-THOUGHT-OUT AND CAREFULLY
PLANNED OR IT WILL BE
DESTRUCTIVE TO THE CITY.
THIRD, I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR
RESPONDING SO QUICKLY TO THE
LIBRARY AND PROPOSING DC THREE
IT WOULD BE A WONDERFUL
STIMULUS TO THE ECONOMY TO SEE
SOMETHING OTHER THAN A PARKING
LOT OF CARS BEING AS A PARK
THEIR LIKEWISE FOR DC FOR
PROPOSAL A KIND OF REMINDS ME
OF BREXIT IT A CLOSE VOTE MANY
OF THOSE IN FAVOR LATER
REGRETTED THEIR VOTE BUT
UNDERSTANDABLY VOTED THE WAY
THAT THEY DUE TO STRONG
MISINFORMATION CAMPAIGNS AT
LEAST ANOTHER UNLIKE THE UK HAS
AN OPPORTUNITY TO RECONSIDER.
>> FINALLY I WANT TO RAISE A
QUESTION ABOUT THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
TIMELY THANKS TO THEIR ANNUAL
REPORT TO COUNCIL GIVEN THAT
THE MEMBER REPRESENTS AAPS
ATTENDED ZERO COMMISSION
MEETINGS IN 2024, SHOULD
COUNCIL NOT REQUEST THAT THEY
STEP DOWN AND FOR AIRPORTS TO
SEND SOMEONE WHO WILL ACTUALLY
ATTEND THE MEETINGS?
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS EESHA
.
>> GO AHEAD
PLEASE.
UNMUTED
.
HELLO.
>> WE CAN HEAR YOU OK I'M
CALLING IN SUPPORT OF DC ONE IN
DC TO MY NAME IS KHAN AND I'M A
SENIOR FOR SCHOOL PUBLIC POLICY
LIKE MANY YOUNG PEOPLE IN ANN
ARBOR I'M DEEPLY WORRIED ABOUT
CLIMATE CHANGE.
THE PHASE ONE STUDY MADE IT
CLEAR THE ONLY WAY WE'LL REACH
OUR CLIMATE GOALS AND
CIVILIZATION IS THE HOTTEST
IT'S BEEN THE HOTTEST YEAR ON
RECORD THE TENTH YEAR IN A ROW.
WE CAN'T TAKE HALF MEASURES.
WE NEED BOLD ACTION NOW
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY IS
NOT ENOUGH.
IT WILL ONLY COVER 10 PERCENT
OF AN AVERAGE ELECTRICITY IN
THE NEXT DECADE.
WE NEED 100 PERCENT AND WE NEED
A FAST.
MEANWHILE YOU CONTINUE TO TELL
US BELLUS STORMS ARE GETTING
WORSE AND WE CAN'T AFFORD TO
HAVE UNRELIABLE, UNACCOUNTABLE
CORPORATION IN CHARGE OF OUR
POWER DDE IS TAKING ADVANTAGE
OF US.
THEY'RE JUST NAME ONE OF THE
WORST OFFENDERS IN THE COUNTRY
THE CENTER FOR BIOLOGICAL
DIVERSITY.
THEY TARGET LOW COMMUNITIES
WHILE PULLING TWENTY THREE
MILLION A YEAR.
I RAN OVER AND HANDED IT TO
SHAREHOLDERS 14 TIMES THE COST
OF THE STUDY.
IF WE PAID CHELSI RATES WE'D
SAVE 66 MILLION A YEAR.
THAT'S EIGHT HUNDRED AND FORTY
MILLION LOST OVER 25 YEARS AND
IT'S ONLY GETTING WORSE THIS
FEASIBILITY STUDY ISN'T JUST AN
EXPENSE IT'S AN INVESTMENT
IT'LL PAY FOR ITSELF MANY TIMES
OVER.
WE CAN'T LET CORPORATIONS AND
OLIGARCHS DICTATE DICTATE OUR
FUTURE.
WE HAVE TO STAND UP AND SAY
ENOUGH IS ENOUGH.
THE BOTH OF YOUNG PEOPLE IN THE
CITY MATTERS MANY AREN'T HERE
TONIGHT BECAUSE SPRING BREAK WE
ARE THE ONE BUT LIVE WITH THE
CONSEQUENCES OF THIS DECISION.
PLEASE INVEST IN OUR FUTURE.
>> MOVE FORWARD WITH THIS
STUDY.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS GINA KATZ
.
HI.
MY NAME IS GINA KATZ AND I LIVE
WITH MY FAMILY IN OUR HUNDRED
YEAR OLD HOME AND THE CURVE
OF WALLINGFORD THE NARROWING
OF THE WALLINGFORD HEARTING
INTERSECTION IS OPPOSED BY ONE
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY ONE
RESIDENTS AND ONE HUNDRED AND
ELEVEN HOUSEHOLDS INCLUDING
EVERY HOME ON WALLINGFORD.
THERE'S STRONG OPPOSITION
AROUND THIS PROJECT BECAUSE
OF THE LACK OF COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT WHEN OUR TWENTY
THREE THREE THIRTY WAS FIRST
BEING DISCUSSED, COUNCIL AND
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
AGREED A COLLABORATIVE MODEL
OF ENGAGEMENT WAS KEY AND THE
INTENTION WAS FOR CITY
OFFICIALS TO COLLABORATE WITH
RESIDENTS.
OUR HOME IS ONE OF THE TWO
HOMES WHOSE PROPERTY WOULD BE
ALTERED WITH THIS NARROWING IN
SEPTEMBER OUR NEIGHBORS OUR
CITY EMPLOYEE IN THE STREET AND
WAS INFORMED THE INTERSECTION
NEEDED TRAFFIC AND THE CURVE
WOULD BE TURNED INTO A CORNER
THAT WAS THE FIRST WE HEARD
OF ANY PLAN TO ALTER THE ROAD.
THIS WAS NOT COLLABORATION
DURING A VIRTUAL COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT MEETING IN NOVEMBER
,MY HUSBAND AND I WERE BLOCKED
FROM MAKING COMMENTS BY A CITY
EMPLOYEE ALSO NOT COLLABORATION
AT LAST WEEK'S MEETING WE WERE
PRESENTED WITH THE SECOND
DRAWING WHICH CLEARLY DID NOT
TAKE RESIDENT FEEDBACK INTO
CONSIDERATION AS IT NARROWS THE
CURVE SIGNIFICANTLY AND HAPPENS
TO GIVE OUR FAMILY A
LANDSCAPING PROJECT.
WHETHER WE AGREE OR DISAGREE
THAT THE DISTANCE BETWEEN
SIDEWALKS NEEDS TO BE ADJUSTED,
WHAT IS FACT IS THAT CITY
OFFICIALS HAVE STRUGGLED TO
ENGAGE THE COMMUNITY IF COUNCIL
WOULD CONSIDER REMOVING THE
WORD NARROWING FROM THE CAPITAL
ID AND REMOVE THE DRAWINGS THAT
WILL GIVE US TIME TO
COLLABORATE WITH ENGINEERING
LEADERSHIP AS IT FELT LIKE THAT
WAS FINALLY POSSIBLE BY THE END
OF THE MEETING LAST WEEK A
PIONEER HIGH SCHOOL SENIOR WHO
LIVES IN IVES WOODS RAN A
TRAFFIC STUDY BECAUSE RESIDENTS
ALL KNOW THERE'S NO TRAFFIC ON
WALLINGFORD AND HE WANTED TO
PROVE IT.
HE INSTALLED A HIGH TECH CAMERA
AND COLLECTED TRAFFIC DATA OVER
A SIX DAY PERIOD.
THE AVERAGE NUMBER OF CARS THAT
DROVE DOWN WALLINGFORD EACH DAY
DURING THE SIX DAY PERIOD WAS
TWO HUNDRED AND SEVENTY FOUR
CARS AND THE EIGHTY FIFTH
PERCENTILE FOR SPEED WAS
FIFTEEN MILES PER HOUR.
THIS DATA INDICATES WALLINGFORD
IS NOT HIGHLY TRAVELED AND
SPEEDING IS NOT AN ISSUE.
THE CURRENT DRAWING'S IGNORE
THAT ONE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY
ONE RESIDENTS WHO ARE MAINLY
THE PEOPLE WHO WILL SUPPOSEDLY
BENEFIT FROM THE CHANGE OPPOSE
.
WHILE WE WOULD PREFER THE
STREET WE PUT BACK THE WAY IT
WAS FOUND.
IF THE CITY IS GOING TO INSIST
THAT WE DO SOMETHING, THIS
COMMUNITY EXPECTS TO BE ENGAGED
.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MARIE POLLY
.
>> GOOD EVENING.
GOOD EVENING.
MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
THANK YOU FOR HAVING US TODAY.
MY NAME IS MARY GUNTA POLLY I
LIVE 2060 SCATTERGOOD AVENUE
AROUND THE CORNER FROM THE
HEARTING IN WALLINGFORD
INTERSECTION THAT'S BEING
DISCUSSED FOR NARROWING.
WE HAVE A TEN YEAR OLD AND A 13
YEAR OLD THIRTEEN YEAR OLD
LEARN TO WALK AROUND THE BLOCK
INCLUDING AT THAT WALLINGFORD
HEARTING INTERSECTION THAT'S
BEING DISCUSSED.
BOTH OF OUR KIDS LEARN TO RIDE
THEIR BIKES AROUND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THEY REGULARLY
WALK TO AND FROM BERN'S PARK
AND RIDE THEIR BIKES WITH
FRIENDS.
WE HAVE NEVER HAD ANY CONCERNS
ABOUT OUR CHILDREN OR THEIR
FRIENDS WALKING THROUGH THE
WALLINGFORD HARTING
INTERSECTION.
HOWEVER, THERE ARE MANY OTHER
AREAS OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE
WE DO HAVE CONCERNS RELATED TO
PEDESTRIAN AND CAR TRAFFIC.
WE BELIEVE THAT THESE AREAS
POSE A MORE SIGNIFICANT SAFETY
CONCERN AS COMMUNITY MEMBERS MY
HUSBAND AND I ARE BOTH ASKING
THAT YOU TAKE THE BID FOR THIS
INTERSECTION TO BE NARROWED OFF
THE TABLE AND ENGAGE WITH THE
COMMUNITY AROUND SAFETY
CONCERNS BEFORE SPENDING MONEY
ON A CHANGE THAT DOES NOT POSE
A SAFETY THREAT.
THERE ARE MANY PEDESTRIAN
SAFETY ISSUES THAT HAVE BEEN
RAISED BY NEIGHBORS THAT ARE IN
QUEUE.
WE ARE ESPECIALLY WORRIED ABOUT
PEDESTRIAN SAFETY ON FIRDA AND
OLIVIA.
I ASK THAT YOU HELP PRIORITIZE
THE TRUE PEDESTRIAN SAFETY
CONCERNS OF OUR NEIGHBORHOOD TO
KEEP IT SAFE FOR OUR KIDS AND
OTHER PEDESTRIANS BEFORE
AUTHORIZING ANY CHANGES TO THE
WALLINGFORD HEARTING
INTERSECTION.
I LOOK FORWARD TO MORE
COLLABORATIVE CONVERSATIONS
WITH YOU.
THANK THANK YOU.
>> THE NEXT SPEAKER IS RYAN
.
HI, I'M RYAN BRAZE.
I LIVE IN THE BERN'S PARK
NEIGHBORHOOD IN THE THIRD WARD.
I'M A MEMBER OF THE NORTH
BERN'S PARK NEIGHBORHOOD
ASSOCIATION THOUGH I DON'T
NECESSARILY SPEAK FOR A GROUP I
NOTICE IN PUBLIC COMMENTARY
FOLKS OFTEN SAY HOW LONG
THEY'VE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR
AND
FOR ME THAT'S ONLY A DECADE.
>> BUT I EXPECT TO GET ANOTHER
FORTY UNLESS I'M KILLED ON MY
BIKE.
BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT I'M TALKING
ABOUT TODAY.
TODAY I'M HERE TO SPEAK IN
FAVOR OF DC FOR DC IS A STEP
TOWARD REMOVING FROM THE CITY
CHARTER.
IT'S ONE AND ONLY MENTION OF A
SPECIFIC PIECE OF LAND I
ORIGINALLY VOTED FOR THIS
BECAUSE HEY I LIKE PARKS IN ALL
EIGHTY THREE PAGES OF THE CITY
CHARTER NO OTHER SPECIFIC PLOT
AND ITS USES DETAILED THE
CHARTER DOESN'T EVEN REQUIRE
THAT WE HAVE A CITY HALL AND
CERTAINLY DOESN'T SPECIFY
BOUNDING STREETS SECTION ONE
POINT FOR THE CHARTER ROBB'S
FUTURE GENERATIONS OF A
FLEXIBILITY IN A DOCUMENT WHOSE
LIFETIME IS MEASURED IN
CENTURIES SETTING ASIDE THAT
THERE IS NEITHER FUNDING NOR
INTENT TO ACTUALLY MAKE THAT A
PARK PUTTING THE CENTER CENTER
OF THE CITY INTO THE CHARTER
WAS A MISTAKE.
IT'S A MISTAKE I VOTED FOR AND
I HOPE TO VOTE TO REMOVE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS VICTORIA
LANGOULANT
.
THANK YOU.
I'M VICTORIA LINGNAN.
I LIVE IN HERMITAGE ROAD IN
WARD THREE.
FIRST THANK YOU TO ANY OF YOU
WHO READ MY VERY LONG LETTER
THIS WEEKEND ABOUT FIVE AND THE
USES OF RESOLUTION TWENTY THREE
THIRTY ESPECIALLY IF YOU READ
ALL THE WAY DOWN TO THE GOLD
STAR.
I APPRECIATE THAT.
I CAME HERE TO SAY THAT THE
RESOLUTION THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKMANN VERY CAREFULLY WROTE
AND THAT THIS BODY JUDICIOUSLY
PASSED IS NOT BEING ENACTED ON
THE GROUND.
THE REQUIREMENT FOR
COLLABORATIVE PARTICIPATION IS
ABSOLUTELY ABSENT AS IF THAT
RESOLVE CLAUSE SIMPLY DID NOT
EXIST.
I EXPLAINED SOME OF THIS IN MY
LETTER AND THE CITY CLERK HAS
HANDED YOU A TWO SIDED DOCUMENT
WITH THE DEFINITION
OF COLLABORATIVE PARTICIPATION
THAT THE RESOLUTION USED WHICH
IS ON ONE SIDE AND ON THE OTHER
A SIDE BY SIDE COMPARISON
OF THE SPEED COMING AS IT
EXISTED BEFORE TWENTY THREE
THREE THIRTY AND HOW IT TOOK
PLACE FOR THE HARDING AND
WALLING FOR AN INTERSECTION AND
HOW IT MIGHT TAKE PLACE FROM
OTHER INTERSECTIONS IN OTHER
NEIGHBORHOODS IF THIS PROCESS
CONTINUES IN THIS WAY NOTE HOW
RESIDENTS HAVE NOT BEEN INVITED
TO COLLABORATE AND HAVE INSTEAD
BEEN SIDELINED FROM THE
DECISION MAKING THROUGHOUT AND
TAKE NOTE ESPECIALLY OF HOW THE
CONTRA THAT YOU ARE BEING ASKED
TO VOTE ON TODAY WAS SENT OUT
TO BID IN THE MIDDLE OF THIS
ALREADY FLAWED PROCESS RATHER
THAN AT THE END THIS IS WHY WE
ARE WRITING YOU LONG EMAILS.
WE ARE ATTENDING MEETINGS EN
MASSE AND YOU'RE SHOWING UP
HERE TO SPEAK FOR THREE SHORT
MINUTES BEGGING SOMEONE TO
LISTEN AND IT'S BECAUSE NO ONE
HAS LISTENED TO US HAS EVEN
TRIED THE SECOND DOCUMENT IN
YOUR HANDS IS THE CRITERIA THAT
THE TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
USED WHEN DECIDING WHETHER OR
NOT TO UNDERTAKE TRAFFIC COMING
IN THE PAST THEY HAD A WELL
CONSIDERED DATA DRIVEN METRIC
FOR DOING SO AND PETITION
PROJECTS REQUIRED A MINIMUM
OF TEN POINTS JUST TO QUALIFY.
ON ONE SIDE YOU CAN SEE AN
ACTUAL PROJECT FOR TWENTY
NINETEEN THAT QUALIFIED IS IT
SCORED THIRTY FIVE POINTS AND
ON THE OTHER SIDE SHOWED YOU
WHAT OUR INTERSECTION WOULD
HAVE SCORED IF THIS METRIC HAD
BEEN USED WE WOULD HAVE EARNED
TWO POINTS AND NEVER EVEN BEEN
CONSIDERED.
THIS SPEAKS TO SOME OF OUR
CONCERNS AND ALSO SUGGESTS WHAT
THIS FAILURE OF PROCESS IS
LEADING TO THAT THIS WAS NOT
THE RESOLUTION'S GOAL.
NOW I DID NOT COME HERE TO
BLAME ANYONE OR TRY TO POINT
FINGERS OR FIGURE OUT WHERE IT
FELL BETWEEN THE CRACKS.
I CAME HERE TO INFORM YOU
OF WHAT IS HAPPENING ON THE
GROUND AND TO ASK YOU TO USE
YOUR OVERSIGHT AUTHORITY TO
ADDRESS THIS.
PLEASE DIRECT THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR'S OFFICE TO
FOLLOW THE RESOLUTION AS IT WAS
INTENDED AND WRITTEN BEGINNING
WITH OUR INTERSECTION BUT
EXTENDING TO EVERY OTHER
NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> THIS IS AN EQUITY ISSUE AS
WELL.
NO ONE NEIGHBORHOOD WILL BE
LISTENED TO IN THIS WAY.
SO FINALLY LET ME SAY A WORD
ABOUT OUR COLLECTIVE OPPOSITION
WHICH A RESIDENT FROM ANOTHER
NEIGHBORHOOD RECENTLY MALIGNED
AT THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION AS BEING FROM JUST A
VOCAL MINORITY WHO JUST DON'T
WANT TO SEE CHANGE ON THEIR
STREET.
HE'S JUST A FELLOW CITIZEN SO
HE SHOULDN'T BE EXPECTED TO
KNOW THE TRUTH.
BUT YOU NEED TO KNOW WE ARE A
NEAR UNANIMOUS MAJORITY
OF RESIDENTS IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE HAVE MULTIPLE REASONS FOR
WANTING TO SEE SOMETHING ELSE
HAPPEN AT THIS INTERSECTION AND
WE ARE ALSO EAGER TO ENGAGE IN
ACTUAL COLLABORATION TO MAKE
THIS POSSIBLE.
SO PLEASE DON'T APPROVE THE
CONTRACT AS IT IS AS THE
DESIGNS INCLUDED THERE DID NOT
COME OUT OF COLLABORATION AND
THEY'RE DEEPLY FLAWED.
PLEASE WE ARE VERY PRO
COLLABORATION AND WE ARE VERY
PRO DIALOG.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DANIEL
RUBINSTEIN.
HI.
MY NAME IS DAN RUBINSTEIN AND
I'M A RESIDENT OF BANABA.
I'M GLAD I HAVE THREE MINUTES.
I THOUGHT I WOULD ONLY HAVE TWO
SO I CAN SET THIS UP A LITTLE
BIT BETTER THERE HAVE BEEN A
LOT OF STATEMENTS ABOUT THE
LIBRARY A LOT I THINK WE CAN
ALL AGREE THAT THE LIBRARY HAS
BEEN A FAILURE BUT I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND EXACTLY
WHY IT'S BEEN A FAILURE.
SO HERE IS SOME FACTUAL CONTENT
THE CITY HAS UNDERMINED
PROPERLY IN THE FOLLOWING WAYS
.
IT REFUSED TO INVEST ANY PUBLIC
MONEY.
IT REFUSED TO REMOVE CARS FROM
THE SURFACE THAT DESPITE THE
UNANIMOUS RECOMMENDATION FROM
THE COUNCIL OF THE COMMONS
PRODUCED A MEMO ON WHY FOOD
TRUCKS COULDN'T BE USED THERE
THAT WAS RIDDLED WITH FACTUAL
ERRORS.
IT FAILED TO REZONE THIS PARK
AS PUBLIC LAND KEEPING ONE AND
MOST IMPORTANTLY IT REFUSED TO
TREAT IT AS A PARK BY OMITTING
IT FROM OUR PROPOSED PLAN
KEEPING IT OUT OF THE PARKS
DEPARTMENT AND REFUSED TO SIGN
A FUNDRAISING AGREEMENT WITH A
COMMUNITY NONPROFIT.
SOMETHING ALSO RECOMMENDED BY
THE COUNCIL OF THE COMMONS
DESPITE INSISTING FUNDING HAD
TO COME FROM OUTSIDE THE CITY
BUDGET.
THESE LATTER TWO HAVING A PARK
IN THE PROPOSED PLAN AND HAVING
A FORMAL WRITTEN AGREEMENT ARE
NECESSARY FOR THE SUCCESS
OF ANY PUBLIC PRIVATE PARKS
PARTNERSHIP AND UPON REQUEST I
AM HAPPY TO PROVIDE ANY COUNCIL
NO CITATIONS FROM THE NATIONAL
PARKS AND RECREATION
ASSOCIATION, THE MICHIGAN
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES
AND THE URBAN INSTITUTE IN THE
WAKE OF THIS HISTORY I COME TO
YOU TODAY TO ASK YOU TO PLEASE
TAKE A FEW SIMPLE STEPS TO HEAL
OUR COMMUNITY AS WE MOVE
FORWARD, MAKE SURE THAT THE
OPEN PUBLIC SPACE IS AS BIG
GREEN WELL APPOINTED WITH
AMENITIES AND OPEN TO PUBLIC
USE AS WAS EVER DISCUSSED
SURROUNDING THE LIBRARY LOT
NUMBER TO MAKE SURE ANY PLAN
INCLUDES CONNECTIVITY
THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE CENTER
OF THE CITY.
NUMBER THREE SPELL OUT WHAT
THEY SAID SO VOTERS KNOW WHAT
THEY ARE REPEALING AND I GUESS
I WOULD ECHO TOM READERS
COMMENTS AS WELL SOMETHING I
DIDN'T EVEN CATCH.
MAKE SURE THE BALLOT CAPTION IS
ACCURATE AS IT WASN'T LAST TIME
MOVE THE BALLOT PROPOSAL TO
NOVEMBER NO FOR THIS IS VERY
IMPORTANT LIVE UP TO THE VALUES
OF DIVERSITY, EQUITY, INCLUSION
THAT WE CHAMPION REGARDLESS
OF WHETHER OR NOT PEOPLE CAN
VOTE IN AUGUST.
TURNOUT IS ALWAYS A FRACTION
OF WHAT IT IS IN NOVEMBER.
THAT IS A FACT DEMOCRATS HAVE
FOUGHT TO EXPAND PRACTICES LIKE
ABSENTEE AND EARLY VOTING TO
ENSURE AS MANY VOTERS AS
POSSIBLE CAN HAVE THEIR VOICES
HEARD TO OBTAIN ELECTORAL
OUTCOMES THAT REFLECT THE FULL
DIVERSITY OF OUR COMMUNITIES
WHICH VERY MUCH INCLUDES
STUDENTS WHO SPEND YEARS AT A
TIME HERE AS WELL AS THE MANY
IN OUR BRIGHTS WHO ARE OUT
OF TOWN IN AUGUST TO BE
EQUITABLE TO EVERYONE THOSE WHO
ARE COMFORTABLE WITH ABSENTEE
VOTING AND THOSE WHO ARE NOT A
PROJECT THAT'S LANGUISHED FOR A
DECADE.
THESE DISCUSSIONS PREDATE PROP
EIGHT CAN WAIT THREE MORE
MONTHS TO FULFILL THESE
IMPORTANT ANN ARBOR VALUES.
FAILURE TO DO SO WOULD RIGHTLY
BE SEEN AS AN ATTEMPT TO
EXCLUDE CERTAIN VOTERS TO LIMIT
DEMOCRACY TO RIG THE SYSTEM FOR
A PREFERRED OUTCOME NO BETTER
THAN GERRYMANDERING OR
REPUBLICANS.
IT DOESN'T MATTER IF IT CHANGES
THE OUTCOME.
THAT'S NOT THE POINT.
THE POINT IS PRINCIPLES MATTER
THE WAY WE PLAY THE GAME
MATTERS.
DEMOCRACY MATTERS.
I ASKED YOU TO PARTIALLY REMEDY
THE YEARS OF OBSTRUCTION BY
ENABLING AS MANY HONORABLE
RATES AS POSSIBLE TO DECIDE
WHETHER IT IS TIME TO ALTER
PROPOSE VISION HOLD THE NO VOTE
IN NOVEMBER.
THANK THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ROSSMO.
HELLO I'M RUSS ONE FIVE D THREE
DC THREE DC FOUR.
I LIKE THAT NUMBER SO MUCH AND
MOVE BACK DECADES TO GET TO MY
CITY AND SMALL TOWN LIBRARY.
>> HAVING CHILDREN SOMETIMES
FEEL LIKE YOU LIVE THERE
ALREADY.
I BUILT IT FOR PROBABLY WAY
BACK WHEN AND FRANKLY I FEEL I
DO ABOUT IT.
IT'S AN UNDERSTATEMENT TO SAY
THAT I REGRET MY VOTE.
WE LOST YEARS OF SORELY NEEDED
DEVELOPMENT WHILE THEY SMOKED
SMOKED MORE GREEN IN THEIR
MEETINGS THAN MADE PROGRESS ON
CREATING ONE.
PLEASE DON'T LET THE
OBSTRUCTIONISTS SUFFERING
AGENDA STOP US FROM BRINGING US
BACK TO THE VOTERS AND GIVING
US THE OPPORTUNITY TO CORRECT
OUR PAST MISTAKES AND FROM THE
LIBRARY TODAY IT'S EXCELLENT TO
HAVE A THIRD SPACE.
I LOVE OUR LIBRARY AND WE'LL
SEE WHAT THEY CAN DO WITH THE
MODERN BUILDING.
WE ALREADY DO A LOT OF THEIR
BEST WITH THAT.
THEY HAVE AND MYSPACE WILL DO
NEEDS TO ALSO SUPPORT OUR ZERO
GOALS.
>> UM, PUTTING HOUSING ON TOP
OF THAT MEANS FEWER CARS WITH
ALL YOUR PROBLEMS DOWNSTAIRS
ABLE TO WALK EVERYWHERE.
>> IT'S JUST GUESS HOW DO I
SIGN UP
?
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BRIAN
CHAMBERS.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL AND BRIAN
CHAMBERS, A 2015 MEMBER IN THE
THIRD WARD.
JUST A QUICK STATEMENT ON DC
ONE TWO I'M IN FAVOR OF THEM.
I ENCOURAGE YOU TO PASS THEM.
WE HAVE THIRTY SEVEN SOLAR
PANELS ON OUR ROOF.
WE'VE GOT A EB WE'VE GOT BACK
TO AIR SOURCE HEAT PUMPS.
BUT YOU KNOW I DON'T ALWAYS SAY
THIS BUT I REALLY WANT TO MAKE
IS AN EQUITY STATEMENT.
MY INCOME HAS MY FAMILY AT THE
TOP FIVE PERCENT TOP NOBODY
ELSE ACROSS HANABI GENERAL
BASIS CAN AFFORD THESE TYPES
OF INVESTMENTS SEIYU IS NOT A
MUNICIPAL UTILITY.
IT WON'T COVER ALL OF BANABA SO
FROM AN EQUITY STANDPOINT WE
NEED TO MUNICIPALITIES PLEASE
AND DC THREE AND FOUR WHICH I'M
HERE TO SPEAK ABOUT THE PROJECT
IS A TRANSFORMATIVE OPPORTUNITY
TO SOLIDIFY ITS PLACE IN THE
KNOWLEDGE ECONOMY TO SHAPE OUR
DOWNTOWN INTO A HUB
OF INNOVATION, INCLUSION AND
ECONOMIC VITALITY.
I COMMEND THE CITY AND THE ANN
ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY FOR
ADVANCING THESE RESOLUTIONS.
MAYOR TAYLOR CAPTURED IT BEST.
YES WE CAN HAVE A STATE OF THE
ART LIBRARY BUT EVEN PUBLIC
SPACE INCOME MIXED HOUSING,
SMALL BUSINESS INCUBATORS AND
DYNAMIC GATHERING SPACES ALL
WITHOUT RAISING TAXES.
LIBRARIES HAVE ALWAYS BEEN AT
THE HEART OF AN URBAN IDENTITY
FROM THE CARNEGIE LIBRARY AT
THE TURN OF THE LAST CENTURY TO
TODAY'S UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN
SCHOOL OF INFORMATION.
OUR CITY HAS LONG RECOGNIZED
THAT KNOWLEDGE FUELS PROGRESS.
THE FOUNDATION OF OUR ECONOMY
HAS BEEN BUILT ON LITERACY
EDUCATION AND ACCESS CORE
PRINCIPLES THAT HAVE GUIDED
LIBRARIES SINCE BENJAMIN
FRANKLIN'S FIRST LENDING
LIBRARIES ILLITERATE INFORMED
PUBLIC IS ESSENTIAL TO
DEMOCRACY AND ECONOMIC GROWTH.
LIBRARIES ARE A FUNDAMENTAL
OF COMMUNITY WELFARE AND
EQUITY.
THEY SERVE AS A CATALYST FOR
INNOVATION AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP
AND THEY PROVIDE INDIVIDUALS A
PATH TO SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC
EMPOWERMENT.
OUR HISTORY OF KNOWLEDGE
LEADERSHIP CONTINUES TODAY ANN
ARBOR WAS A TECH BEFORE THE
TERM EVEN EXISTED.
LARRY PAGE, CO-FOUNDER
OF GOOGLE DEVELOPED SEARCH
TECHNOLOGY WHILE AT U OF M
WORKING ON THE INTERNATIONAL
JOURNAL STORAGE PROJECT, AN
INNOVATION ROOTED IN LIBRARY
RESEARCH BASED RESEARCH.
THE INTERNET ITSELF WAS
PIONEERED HERE THROUGH THE
FEDERALLY FUNDED YOUTH AND
CONSORTIUM.
LIBRARIES ARE NOT JUST ABOUT
BOOKS THEY ARE ENGINES
OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
BUT THIS PROJECT IS NOT JUST
ABOUT THE LIBRARY.
IT'S ABOUT HOUSING, TRANSIT AND
A THRIVING DOWNTOWN WITH TWO
REGIONAL TRANSIT CENTERS BLAKE
AND AMTRAK.
THE SITE IS A NATURAL LOCATION
FOR HIGH DENSITY MIXED INCOME
HOUSING.
A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN CALLS FOR
SIGNIFICANTLY MORE HOUSING,
ESPECIALLY IN WALKABLE TRANSIT
ORIENTED AREAS.
WE NEED AT LEAST 7000 MORE
HOUSING UNITS DOWNTOWN OR
ROUGHLY ONE HUNDRED ADDITIONAL
UNITS PER BLOCK WITHIN A HALF
MILE RADIUS OF OUR TRANSIT
CENTERS.
THE ADL PROJECT HELPS CREATE
THAT DENSITY, ENCOURAGING A
GOAL OF A FIFTEEN MINUTE
NEIGHBORHOOD WALKABLE MIXED USE
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE PROVEN TO
BOOST ECONOMIC VITALITY AND
INNOVATION, ENHANCE LOCAL
BUSINESS SUCCESS, REDUCE PER
PERSON CARBON EMISSIONS AND
IMPROVE QUALITY OF LIFE AND
SOCIAL COHESION.
PLEASE PASS RESOLUTIONS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MERIDITH
CON.
>> HELLO MY NAME IS MEREDITH
HAHN.
I LIVE IN THE FIFTH WARD AND IN
MY DAY JOB I AM A LIBRARIAN AT
A LARGE PUBLIC RESEARCH
UNIVERSITY IN MY LIFE OUTSIDE
OF WORK I AM AN ENTHUSED TECH
PATRON OF THE ANN ARBOR
DISTRICT LIBRARY BEFORE I
CONTINUE I WANT TO NOTE THAT MY
REMARKS THIS EVENING DO NOT
REFLECT THE VIEWS OF MY
EMPLOYER.
I MAKE THEM IN MY CAPACITY AS A
RESIDENT OF THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
I'M CALLING TONIGHT TO VOICE MY
UNQUALIFIED SUPPORT FOR AGENDA
ITEMS DC THREE AND DC FOUR.
WE HAVE A HOUSING SHORTAGE HERE
IN ANN ARBOR.
WE ALSO HAVE AN AWARD WINNING
LIBRARY THAT DESPERATELY NEEDS
A NEW DOWNTOWN BRANCH AND WE
HAVE UNDERUTILIZED PARCEL
OF CITY OWNED LAND THAT COULD
SUPPORT A BUILDING THAT WILL
ALLOW US TO ADDRESS ALL
OF THOSE PROBLEMS.
DC THREE AND DC FOUR REPRESENT
A SOUND PLAN FOR BRINGING MORE
HOUSING AND ESSENTIAL SERVICES
TO THE CORE OF DOWNTOWN CLOSE
TO JAB'S TRANSIT AND AMENITIES
.
I HOPE YOU WILL VOTE IN FAVOR
OF DC THREE AND DC FOUR
TONIGHT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LOUIS
VAZQUEZ.
GREETINGS MAYOR ANANOVA CITY
COUNCIL LUIS VASQUEZ FROM THE
FIRST WARD I LIVE IN UPPER
LOWERTOWN MY FORTY PLUS YEAR
RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR AND I'M
HERE TO SPEAK ON DC THREE AND
DC FOR AN EXPRESS.
MY SOLID SUPPORT FOR THESE
RESOLUTIONS DC THREE AND FOUR
MOVE ANN ARBOR IN THE RIGHT
DIRECTION.
THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY
HAS DEMONSTRATED THAT THEY ARE
ABLE TO PROPOSE AND COMPLETE
PROJECT THAT ARE OF BENEFIT TO
ALL OF ANN ARBOR.
LET'S GIVE THEM THIS GOLDEN
OPPORTUNITY AND MOVE FORWARD.
IF I WERE A MEMBER OF THE
LIBRARY GREEN CONSERVANCY I
WOULD BE TRYING TO FIND OUT
WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN TO THE
LOT ON THE CORNER OF 5TH AND
WILLIAM IN CASE THE LIBRARY
DECIDES TO PUT, YOU KNOW, THEIR
THEIR WHOLE STRUCTURE THE
LIBRARY INTO A NEW STRUCTURE ON
THE LIBRARY LOT AND YOU KNOW,
THAT MAY BE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
PUT A PARK WITHOUT ENCUMBRANCES
OF HAVING TO DEAL WITH THE
STRUCTURAL ENGINEERING ASPECTS
OF THE LIBRARY ON DC ONE IN DC
TOO.
>> I'M SPEAKING NOT AS A FAN
OF DTT AND AS A HOMEOWNER WHO
HAS ALSO PUT SOLAR PANELS ON MY
ROOF.
BUT WHAT WE'RE SEEING I THINK
WE HAVE YET TO SEE THE IMPACTS
OF PRESIDENT AND I'M SORRY
PRESIDENT MUSK OR ACTUALLY
PRESIDENT TRUMP THE CUTS THEY
WERE MAKING AND WHICH ARE ABOUT
TO BE FELT IN ANN ARBOR AND AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
>> SO I'M KIND OF DUBIOUS.
I THINK NOW MAY NOT BE THE BEST
TIME TO DEVOTE ONE POINT SEVEN
MILLION DOLLARS TO A STUDY TO
EVALUATE DTD GRID ASSETS WHICH
WE KNOW WILL COST IN THE EXCESS
OF A BILLION DOLLARS OR MORE OR
TO DEVOTE CITY STAFF TIME
TOWARDS ANTICIPATED LITIGATION
USING BOULDER, COLORADO AS AN
EXAMPLE, THEY SPENT TEN YEARS
AND MANY MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
AND THEIR THE LAWYERS FOR THE
UTILITY ONE THAT I WOULD MUCH
RATHER SEE THAT MONEY AND STAFF
TIME PUT TOWARDS THE
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
WHICH ANN ARBOR VOTERS
OVERWHELMINGLY SUPPORTED IN
2010 BEFORE BY OFFERING MORE
SUBSIDIES TO ANN ARBOR
HOMEOWNERS TO PLACE SOLAR
PANELS AND WIND TURBINES ON
THEIR PROPERTIES.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RACHEL.
HI.
I READ YOUR COOL I LIVE
THIRTEEN THIRTY SIX KENSINGTON
FIRST IN RESPONSE TO THAT
COMMENT JUST MADE THE WHOLE
POINT OF THE STUDY IS TO FIND
OUT HOW MUCH IT WOULD COST SO
TO HAVE THIS FORGONE CONCLUSION
THAT IT'S GOING TO BE A BILLION
DOLLARS IS SOMETHING THAT WE
NEED TO AVOID.
IN THE FIRST STUDY WE CAME OUT
WITH THE IDEA THAT IT WAS GOING
TO COST BETWEEN TWO HUNDRED AND
EIGHTY ONE AND ONE POINT ONE
DOLLARS BILLION.
WELL THAT'S NOT ANYTHING UPON
WHICH YOU CAN MAKE A DECISION.
THAT'S WHY WE NEED MORE
INFORMATION AND OBVIOUSLY I'M
IN SUPPORT OF IT WANTED TO AND
I WOULD LIKE TO SAY THAT YOU
YOU ONLY HEAR FROM THE PEOPLE
WHO CAN BE HERE SO WE'RE NOT
COUNTING ALL OF THE OTHER
PEOPLE WHO CAN'T SPEAK.
SO IN TERMS OF THE PEOPLE WHO
CAN'T SPEAK, YOU HAVE THE CITY
THAT VOTED FOR THE CLIMATE BILL
.
SEVENTY ONE PERCENT AND TWENTY
TWENTY TWO YOU HAD SEVENTY NINE
PERCENT OF THE CITY VOTE FOR
THE SIU.
SO I THINK YOU HAVE RESIDENTS
WHO ARE VERY INTERESTED IN
ENERGY ALTERNATIVES.
SO I DO BELIEVE THAT YOU HAVE
YOU CAN LOOK AT THAT AS A
MANDATE AND I DO WANT TO TELL
YOU A QUICK STORY.
I KNOW WE ALL AGREE ABOUT HOW
DTT IS AWFUL.
IT'S WHEN WE HAVE A CITY
ALIGNED WITH DENHA NESSEL TO
SUE DTT WE KNOW WHERE YOU STAND
BUT IN TERMS OF THE EQUITY
ISSUES IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD THERE
IS A NINETY FOUR YEAR OLD WOMAN
WITH MILD DEMENTIA WHO LIVES
ALONE WHO HAS PROFOUND HEARING
LOSS WHEN THE POWER GOES OUT
HER BATTERIES CAN'T CHARGE FOR
HER HEARING AID.
SHE CAN'T COMMUNICATE ON A
PHONE EVEN IF SHE CAN CALL
PEOPLE SHE CANNOT HEAR WHAT
THEY'RE SAYING.
IF YOU WANT PEOPLE TO BE ABLE
TO AGE IN PLACE, IF YOU WANT TO
HELP PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES,
THESE ARE OTHER PARTS OF THE
EQUITY PICTURE THAT I WANT YOU
TO THINK ABOUT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
WE HAVE REACHED FORTY FIVE
MINUTES OF PUBLIC COMMENT THE
THE BALANCE OF PUBLIC
COMMENTERS WILL HAVE THEIR TIME
TO SPEAK BEFORE COUNCIL IN THE
COMMUNITY AFTER OUR CLOSED
SESSION ARE THEIR
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
COUNCIL MEMBER MALIK?
I HAVE THE DISTINCT PRIVILEGE
TODAY OF ATTENDING DAY ONE
OF THE TWO DAY NATIONAL FARM
STOP CONFERENCE HOSTED HERE IN
ANN ARBOR.
I SEEING SO MANY FOLKS ENGAGED
IN STRENGTHENING OUR NATION'S
FOOD SYSTEM WAS TRULY INSPIRING
AS WE'RE SEEING OUR OWN ARGUERS
FARM STOP LEADING THE WAY.
I'M EXCITED TO SEE WHAT COMES
ON DAY TWO OF THE CONFERENCE
BUT I KNOW THE FUTURE OF OUR
LOCAL AND OUR FOOD SYSTEM IS IN
GOOD HANDS IF YOU HAVE THE
MEANS PLEASE SUPPORT YOUR LOCAL
FARM STOP AS WELL AS YOUR LOCAL
FARMERS.
>> I ALSO WANTED TO THANK ANN
ARBOR POLICE CHIEF ANDRE
ANDERSON AND HIS TEAM FOR
JOINING ME AND COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON AT OUR WARD TO LISTENING
SESSION LAST WEEKEND WE HAD
GREAT TURNOUT AND WONDERFUL
ENGAGEMENT ALONG THE SAME
LINES.
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON AND I ARE
HOSTING OUR NEXT WARD TWO
LISTENING SESSION ON MARCH 22ND
A SATURDAY FROM THREE TO FOUR
P.M. ONCE AGAIN AT TREYVAUD
LIBRARY.
THANKS FOR THE COMMUNICATION
PROFESSOR
.
I LIKE TO REQUEST CONFIRMATION
OF THE FOLLOWING APPOINTMENTS
ARE PRESENTED TO CITY COUNCIL
ON FEBRUARY 18 20 25 TO THE
BOARD REVIEW ALICE ALICE
HOANG'S MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELISSEN MY COUNCIL BRACKMAN
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OR OPPOSED
IT IS APPROVED WE HAVE BEFORE
US THE CONSENT AGENDA MAY HAVE
A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE OR
CONSENT THE GENTLEMAN BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA
ANNOUNCEMENT OR DENHA I'D LIKE
TO PULL FIVE PLEASE C FIVE
HUNDRED ISH.
>> I WOULD JUST LIKE TO SAY
A
COUPLE OF THINGS ABOUT TWO
ITEMS WITHOUT PULLING THEM
SEVEN I WOULD LIKE TO EXPRESS
GRATITUDE TO THE ESTATE
OF JAMES ROBERT PACKARD FOR A
GIFT OF ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEEN
THOUSAND DOLLARS WHICH HE
DESIGNATED FOR TREE MAINTENANCE
AND PUBLIC AND THAT PUBLIC
WORKS WORKS STAFF WILL USE TO
INCREASE THE BUDGET OF ROUTINE
STREET TO TREE PRUNING AND
THAT'S ABOVE ALL VERY IMPORTANT
SUPPORT FOR HEALTHY TREES.
I WAS PLANNING TO CALL THIS OUT
BEFORE I SAW IT CALLED OUT IN
COUNCIL NO BRIGS NEWSLETTER.
>> NOW I'M GOING TO QUOTE
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S BECAUSE
SHE RECOGNIZES THE PACKARDS
WITH THESE VERY BEAUTIFUL WORDS
THANKING THEM FOR THEIR
GENEROSITY AND QUOTE FOR THEIR
DESIRE TO ATTEND AND CARE FOR
OUR COMMUNITY EVEN AFTER THEY
COULD NO LONGER BE DIRECT
BENEFICIARIES.
>> I THOUGHT THAT WAS LOVELY.
BUT I ALSO WANT TO SAY C10 I'M
SO EXCITED.
THIS IS A RESOLUTION THAT
GRANTS AVALON HOUSING 100000
DOLLARS FROM THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND THAT
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS IS THE
AMOUNT REQUIRED IN CITY
MATCHING FUNDS TO ACCEPT A
600000 DOLLAR GRANT FROM THE
MICHIGAN STATE HOUSING AND
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY FOR MR..
THOSE FUNDS WILL ENABLE AVALON
TO APPROVE IMPROVE THE
ACCESSIBILITY AND ENERGY
EFFICIENCY AT STIMPSON
APARTMENTS, A 23 UNIT APARTMENT
COMPLEX THAT HOUSES PEOPLE WHO
EARN BELOW 60 PERCENT AREA
MEDIAN INCOME.
THIS IS A GREAT EXAMPLE OF MANY
THINGS THE CITY IS DOING WELL.
IT'S A SUCCESSFUL GRANT
APPLICATION TO STATE
GOVERNMENT.
IT'S A SUCCESSFUL COLLABORATION
BETWEEN OUR CITY AND OUR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PARTNERS AND
IT'S A GREAT EXAMPLE OF HOW THE
STAFF LEVERAGES CITY DOLLARS TO
BRING IN MORE DOLLARS FOR
RESIDENT PRIORITY PROJECTS.
IN THIS CASE WE SEE ONE DOLLAR
BECOMING SIX THIS IS POSSIBLE
BECAUSE WE ARE CAREFUL STEWARDS
OF CITY RESOURCES.
THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION
AGENDA ALL IN FAVOR OF THE
CONCEPT OF WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF CFR WALPOLE'S THE CONSENT
AGENDA WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF FIVE IS APPROVED WITH TEN
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE.
THE SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO SEE
TO SEE A THREE TO SEVEN S.A
FIVE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT WITH BABY
EXCAVATING INC FOR THE TWO ZERO
TO FIVE MISCELLANEOUS UTILITY
PROJECTS AND TO APPROPRIATE
THREE MILLION FOUR HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY THREE THOUSAND SIX
HUNDRED DOLLARS IN CONTRIBUTING
FUNDS MADE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DENHA SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER IA DISCUSSION PLEASE
FIVE COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA.
OH I BELIEVE THERE'S ERM THANK
YOU VERY MUCH REALLY THERE'S AN
INTRODUCTION
.
HELLO CAN YOU HR ME.
YES WE CAN.
OK THANK YOU BARRY THIS IS NICK
HUTCHINSON FOR THE ENGINEER.
WE HAD SOME QUESTIONS COME IN
ABOUT THIS ITEM AND I WANT TO
START OUT HERE WITH JUST A
QUICK OVERVIEW OF THE PROJECT
THE TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
MISCELLANEOUS UTILITY PROJECT
CONSISTS OF SEVERAL SMALLER
PROJECTS ACROSS THE CITY THAT
HAVE BEEN COMBINED TOGETHER FOR
INCREASED EFFICIENCY.
ONE OF THESE LOCATIONS INCLUDED
IN THIS PROJECT IS HURTING ROAD
WHICH CONSISTS OF THE
INSTALLATION OF A NEW WATER
MAIN AND SANITARY SEWER AND
RESURFACING OF THE ROADWAY
BECAUSE THE INTERSECTION
OF HEARTING WALL OF WALLINGFORD
WILL BE TORN UP TO MAKE THESE
CONNECTIONS, STAFF HAS PROPOSED
MAKING SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS TO
THE INTERSECTION.
SEVERAL QUESTIONS ON THIS
INTERSECTION WORK RECEIVED NO
ADDRESS THOSE DIRECTLY AS
FOLLOWS THE FIRST ONE WHILE NOT
IN THE RESOLUTION CONTRACT
STAFF MEMO INDICATES A
NARROWING OF WALLINGFORD
HEARTING INTERSECTION AT THE
COMMUNITY MEETING LAST WEEK IT
SEEMED THAT DESIGN DECISIONS
WERE NOT FINALIZED AND STAFF
AGREED TO CONSIDER OTHER
OPTIONS INCLUDING THINGS LIKE
NEIGHBORHOOD STYLE ROUNDABOUTS,
SPEED HUMPS ETC. TO ACHIEVE
SAFETY GOALS.
SO THE FIRST QUESTION RELATED
TO THAT IS THE DESIGN
FINALIZED.
THE ANSWER TO THAT IS NO.
THAT IS CURRENTLY EVALUATING
ADDITIONAL CONCEPTS TO ACHIEVE
THE SAFETY GOALS OF THIS
LOCATION THAT WILL BETTER
INCORPORATE FEEDBACK FROM THE
RESIDENT SECOND, IF NOT IS THIS
IS THE PROCESS FINAL?
WHAT IS THE PROCESS FOR
FINALIZING THE DESIGN?
AND THE ANSWER TO THAT IS ONCE
THE ADDITIONAL CONCEPTS THAT WE
ARE LOOKING AT ARE ANALYZED,
ANY OF THE SUITABLE
ALTERNATIVES COME OUT OF THAT
WILL BE SHARED WITH THE PUBLIC
FOR ADDITIONAL ROUND
OF FEEDBACK BEFORE THE FINAL
DESIGN IS SELECTED.
THE SECOND QUESTION IT SEEMS
THE MOTIVATING FACTOR IN
REDESIGNING HARDING WALLINGFORD
INTERSECTION IS DRIVEN BY
RESOLUTION TWENTY THREE DASH
THREE THIRTY THE RESOLUTION TO
ADOPT AN IMPROVED NEIGHBORHOOD
PROGRAM.
ARE THERE ANY TRAFFIC CALMING
PROGRAM BEING USED ON THIS
PROJECT?
THE ANSWER TO THAT IS NO.
THE FORMAL THE FORMAL TRAFFIC
CALMING PROGRAM HAS ITS OWN
BUDGET AND THAT IS RESERVED FOR
RESIDENT INITIATED PETITJEAN.
THE SECOND QUESTION WILL ANY
OTHER EXIST IN TRAFFIC CALMING
REQUESTS BE DELAYED BECAUSE
OF THIS PROJECT?
THE ANSWER TO THAT IS NO.
AGAIN, THE FORMAL PROGRAM HAS
ITS OWN BUDGET AND THEN THIRD,
MANY OF THE CRITERIA FOR
EVALUATING THE EVALUATION
OF TRAFFIC CALL ME DO NOT SEEM
TO THIS INTERSECTION FOR
EXAMPLE CRASHES RECORD
OF SPEEDING RESIDENT COMPLAINTS
ETC. WHILE OTHER NEARBY STREETS
AND INTERSECTIONS SEEM TO HAVE
SIGNIFICANTLY SIGNIFICANTLY
MORE CONCERNS.
WHAT ARE THE FACTORS THAT LED
STAFF TO THE CONCLUSION THAT A
RECONFIGURATION WAS NECESSARY
AT THE ONLY FOR HARTING
INTERSECTION IN ANSWER TO THAT,
STAFF EVALUATED THIS
INTERSECTION FOR SAFETY
IMPROVEMENTS SOLELY BECAUSE
OF THE UTILITY PROJECT ON
CARDING THAT WILL NEED TO
REMOVE PAVEMENT IN THE
INTERSECTION ANYWAY IT IS NOT
SELECTED FOR ANY FURTHER
IMPROVEMENTS BY COMPARING IT TO
ANY OTHER INTERSECTIONS IN THE
AREA AND IS NOT COMPETING WITH
OTHER PLACES IS SOLELY BECAUSE
OF THE FACT THAT WE WERE THERE
WITH ANOTHER PROJECT THE
PRIMARY REASONS THE STAFF FELT
CHANGES WERE NEEDED HERE WERE A
LACK OF ADA COMPLIANCE.
THE UNUSUALLY LONG DISTANCE
REQUIRED FOR PEDESTRIANS TO
CROSS HEARTING THE LARGE RADIUS
CURVES THAT DO NOT DO NOT
ENCOURAGE TRAFFIC TO SLOW DOWN
WHEN TURNING AND THE FACT THAT
THE INTERSECTION IS WALKING
DISTANCE OF BOTH HAVE MIDDLE
SCHOOL AND BYRNES PARK
ELEMENTARY.
THE FINAL QUESTION HERE IS THAT
OUR TWENTY THREE DASH THREE
THIRTY CALLS FOR A
COLLABORATIVE MODEL OF PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT FOR TRAFFIC CALMING
HOW THE STAFF EVALUATE IF THE
STANDARD FOR A COLLABORATIVE
MODEL HAS BEEN MET.
FIRST OF ALL, THE RESOLUTION
DOES NOT.
THE RESOLUTION ITSELF DOES NOT
ACTUALLY DEFINE THE TERM
COLLABORATIVE MODEL WHICH MAKES
IT A LITTLE BIT SUBJECTIVE.
HOWEVER, GIVEN STAFF HAS
IMPLEMENTED AN ITERATIVE
PROCESS OF PRESENTING IDEAS THE
PUBLIC AND OBTAINING FEEDBACK,
WE BELIEVE THAT THE PROCESS
MEETS THE INTENT OF THE
RESOLUTION THAT IS THE END
OF MY INTRODUCTION AND I WILL
BE HERE FOR ANY FURTHER
QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I'LL START BY SAYING THAT I AM
FULLY SUPPORTIVE OF THE
UNDERLYING UTILITY PROJECT THAT
IS ACTUALLY THE ITEM ON THE
AGENDA AND I HAVE NO INTENTION
OF TRYING TO DELAY OR
JEOPARDIZE THAT IMPORTANT WORK
THAT NEEDS TO HAPPEN TONIGHT
BUT RATHER AS THE INTRODUCTORY
QUESTIONS I WANTED TO SPEAK A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE SMALL PART
A SMALLER PORTION OF THE
CONTRACT TONIGHT WHICH IS THE
INTERSECTION OF THE WELL
OF WALLINGFORD AND HEARTING
ROADS WHICH WILL BE TORN UP AS
PART OF THIS PROJECT AND IS
BEING SLATED FOR REDESIGN TO
START THAT IF COULD PLEASE
CIRCULATE PROPOSED AMENDMENT
THAT I HAVE SUBMITTED, I PLAN
TO I WILL MOVE THAT TO AMEND
FIVE TO ADJUST THE LANGUAGE AND
ONE OF THE MEMOS PROJECT BULLET
POINTS WHICH NOW READS
WALLINGFORD HEARTING
INTERSECTION SAFETY TO NOW READ
INTERSECTION SAFETY
WALLINGFORD HEARTING
IMPROVEMENTS INSTEAD OF THE
INTERSECTION SAFETY
EXISTING NARROWING
IMPROVEMENTS INSTEAD OF THE
OF WALLINGFORD HEARTING
EXISTING NARROWING
INTERSECTION AND FURTHER TO ADD
OF WALLINGFORD HEARTING
THE FOLLOWING RESOLVED CLAUSE
INTERSECTION AND FURTHER TO ADD
TO THE RESOLUTION RESOLVED THAT
THE FOLLOWING RESOLVED CLAUSE
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR IS
TO THE RESOLUTION RESOLVED THAT
DIRECTED AND AUTHORIZED TO
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR IS
CONTINUE TO ENGAGE AND
DIRECTED AND AUTHORIZED TO
COLLABORATE WITH THE PUBLIC AND
CONTINUE TO ENGAGE AND
MAKE A FINAL DECISION ON PLANS
COLLABORATE WITH THE PUBLIC AND
AND FINAL PLANS FOR HEARTING
MAKE A FINAL DECISION ON PLANS
AND WALLINGFORD INTERSECTIONS
AND FINAL PLANS FOR HEARTING
SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS IS THERE A
AND WALLINGFORD INTERSECTIONS
SECOND AGO DENHA THANK YOU.
SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS IS THERE A
>> SO IF ADOPTED THESE CHANGES
SECOND AGO DENHA THANK YOU.
ARE INTENDED TO BETTER REFLECT
>> SO IF ADOPTED THESE CHANGES
THE CURRENT STATUS OF THE
ARE INTENDED TO BETTER REFLECT
PROJECT AS FINAL DESIGN
THE CURRENT STATUS OF THE
DECISIONS AS WE'VE JUST HEARD
PROJECT AS FINAL DESIGN
HAVE NOT BEEN MADE AT A PUBLIC
DECISIONS AS WE'VE JUST HEARD
MEETING JUST A WEEK AGO WHILE
HAVE NOT BEEN MADE AT A PUBLIC
TWO DESIGNS WERE PRESENTED THAT
MEETING JUST A WEEK AGO WHILE
WOULD NARROW THE INTEREST
TWO DESIGNS WERE PRESENTED THAT
SECTION STAFF COMMITTED AT THAT
WOULD NARROW THE INTEREST
MEETING TO FURTHER EXPLORE
SECTION STAFF COMMITTED AT THAT
ADDITIONAL ALTERNATIVE TO THE
MEETING TO FURTHER EXPLORE
FINAL DESIGN INCLUDING THINGS
ADDITIONAL ALTERNATIVE TO THE
LIKE A NEIGHBORHOOD
FINAL DESIGN INCLUDING THINGS
NEIGHBORHOOD STYLE ROUNDABOUT
LIKE A NEIGHBORHOOD
SPEED HUMPS AND OTHER OPTIONS
NEIGHBORHOOD STYLE ROUNDABOUT
THAT MAY ACHIEVE SAFETY GOALS
SPEED HUMPS AND OTHER OPTIONS
WITHOUT NARROWING AN
THAT MAY ACHIEVE SAFETY GOALS
INTERSECTION THAT MANY
WITHOUT NARROWING AN
RESIDENTS FEEL IS A DEFINING
INTERSECTION THAT MANY
CHARACTERISTIC OF THEIR
RESIDENTS FEEL IS A DEFINING
NEIGHBORHOOD.
CHARACTERISTIC OF THEIR
AS WE HEARD IN PUBLIC COMMENT
NEIGHBORHOOD.
TO DATE, ONE HUNDRED AND
AS WE HEARD IN PUBLIC COMMENT
SEVENTY ONE RESIDENTS IN THE
TO DATE, ONE HUNDRED AND
NEIGHBORHOOD HAVE SIGNED
SEVENTY ONE RESIDENTS IN THE
PETITIONS OPPOSING THE
NEIGHBORHOOD HAVE SIGNED
NARROWING OF THIS INTERSECTION
PETITIONS OPPOSING THE
AND MY CONVERSATIONS WITH THEM
NARROWING OF THIS INTERSECTION
HAVE EXPRESSED FRUSTRATION WITH
AND MY CONVERSATIONS WITH THEM
THE PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT PROCESS
HAVE EXPRESSED FRUSTRATION WITH
THAT HAS NOT ALWAYS MET THE
THE PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT PROCESS
STANDARD OF COLLABORATIVE MODEL
THAT HAS NOT ALWAYS MET THE
.
STANDARD OF COLLABORATIVE MODEL
WITH THAT SAID, I WILL ALSO
.
NOTE THAT BOTH THE TONE AND
WITH THAT SAID, I WILL ALSO
TENOR OF THIS CONVERSATION HAS
NOTE THAT BOTH THE TONE AND
GOTTEN A BIT OUT OF HAND AT
TENOR OF THIS CONVERSATION HAS
TIMES STAFF HAS BEEN MET BY
GOTTEN A BIT OUT OF HAND AT
SOME RESIDENTS THROUGHOUT THIS
TIMES STAFF HAS BEEN MET BY
PROCESS IN WAYS THAT I ALSO
SOME RESIDENTS THROUGHOUT THIS
FIND UNACCEPT STAFF IS
PROCESS IN WAYS THAT I ALSO
RESPONSIBLE FOR CARRYING OUT
FIND UNACCEPT STAFF IS
THE DIRECTION OF COUNCIL AND SO
RESPONSIBLE FOR CARRYING OUT
I DO ENCOURAGE RESIDENTS TO
THE DIRECTION OF COUNCIL AND SO
OBJECT TO WHO OBJECT TO STAFF
I DO ENCOURAGE RESIDENTS TO
DECISIONS, BEHAVIORS AND
OBJECT TO WHO OBJECT TO STAFF
ACTIONS TO DIRECT THOSE TO
DECISIONS, BEHAVIORS AND
COUNCIL AND TO THE
ACTIONS TO DIRECT THOSE TO
ADMINISTRATOR.
COUNCIL AND TO THE
THIS AMENDMENT IS AN EFFORT TO
ADMINISTRATOR.
RESTORE SOME TRUST IN THIS
THIS AMENDMENT IS AN EFFORT TO
PROCESS TO REAFFIRM THAT THE
RESTORE SOME TRUST IN THIS
FINAL DESIGN DECISION FOR THIS
PROCESS TO REAFFIRM THAT THE
INTERSECTION IS NOT DECIDED AND
FINAL DESIGN DECISION FOR THIS
TO PROVIDE THE CITY WITH
INTERSECTION IS NOT DECIDED AND
ADDITIONAL OPPORTUNITIES TO
TO PROVIDE THE CITY WITH
ENGAGE THE PUBLIC
ADDITIONAL OPPORTUNITIES TO
COLLABORATIVELY AND TO DEVELOP
ENGAGE THE PUBLIC
A FINAL PLAN FOR THE
COLLABORATIVELY AND TO DEVELOP
INTERSECTION IN FULL
A FINAL PLAN FOR THE
CONSIDERATION OF THAT PUBLIC
INTERSECTION IN FULL
FEEDBACK FOR THE DISCUSSION
CONSIDERATION OF THAT PUBLIC
OF THE AMENDMENT, I WANT TO
FEEDBACK FOR THE DISCUSSION
THANK COUNCIL MEMBER FOR A
OF THE AMENDMENT, I WANT TO
DENHA FOR YOUR WORK ON THIS AND
THANK COUNCIL MEMBER FOR A
ALSO FOR THE RESIDENTS ON
DENHA FOR YOUR WORK ON THIS AND
HARTING AND WALLINGFORD WHO
ALSO FOR THE RESIDENTS ON
HAVE CONSISTENTLY KIND OF TOLD
HARTING AND WALLINGFORD WHO
US WHAT IS HAPPENING, THE LACK
HAVE CONSISTENTLY KIND OF TOLD
OF ENGAGEMENT THAT WAS
US WHAT IS HAPPENING, THE LACK
HAPPENING.
OF ENGAGEMENT THAT WAS
>> I AGREE
THAT, YOU KNOW, THE
TONE AND THE TENOR
OF CONVERSATIONS RECENTLY HAS
NOT REALLY MET OUR STANDARD
OF COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND
WE'RE HOPING THAT THESE CHANGES
WILL BETTER REFLECT WHAT BOTH
RESIDENTS WANT AND THE CITY
NEEDS FURTHER DISCUSSION ON
FEBRUARY AMENDMENT OPPOSED WHEN
A LOCAL PATROL ROLL-CALL VOTE
PLEASE STARTING WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER MALIK YES.
>> JUST GETTING A COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA YES COUNCIL NO
GARTSIDE ONE YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER IGHER YES.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN YES.
BRIGG'S ABSENT COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNEAU NO.
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON YES.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON YES.
APPROVED FOR THE DISCUSSION
OF THE MAIN MOTION AMENDED ON
FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED
WITH TEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT AS AMENDED ALL VOTING
IN THE AFFIRMATIVE THUS
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT.
WE COME NOW TO A PUBLIC
HEARING.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL IN THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST
TO SPEAK AT A PUBLIC HEARING
ONE NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE.
HOWEVER, YOUR SPEECH AT THE
PUBLIC HEARING MUST RELATE TO
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING.
THAT IS TO SAY THE ITEM ON THE
AGENDA TO WHICH THE PUBLIC
HEARING RELATES TO SPEAKERS IN
ALL INSTANCES BOTH HERE AND
ONLINE WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES
IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING AND
WHEN YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED WHEN
YOUR TIME'S EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER
ONE AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ZONING
REZONING FOUR POINT SIX ACRES
FROM R1 C SINGLE FAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT TO P L PUBLIC
LAND DISTRICT PARK AT DEXTER
ROAD AND CEBULL DRIVE REZONING
TWO FIVE SEVEN ZERO TWO FIVE
SEVEN SIX AND TWO FIVE EIGHT TO
DEXTER ROAD.
>> IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING PARDON ME?
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
NOBODY ONLINE LINE WITH THEIR
HANDS UP MAYOR
SEE NO ONE THIS
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED.
>> WE HAVE TO FORCE THE MINUTES
OF THE WORK SESSION OF FEBRUARY
TEN IN THE REGULAR SESSION
MINUTES OF FEBRUARY 18, 20 25
ER MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THESE MINUTES MOVE A COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF THE MINUTES ON FAVOR
OR OPPOSE THE MINUTES ARE
APPROVED BY ONE AUDIENCE TO
AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ZONING
REZONING OF POINT SIX ACRES
FROM R ONE C SINGLE FAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT TO PEL PUBLIC
LAND DISTRICT PARK AT DEXTRA
ROAD DECEBAL DRIVE REZONING TWO
FIVE SEVEN ZERO TWO FIVE SEVEN
SIX TWO FIVE SIX TWO DEXTER
ROAD MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CANAL DISCUSSION PLEASE BE ONE
CATHERINE RITEISH APPROVAL
OF THIS RESOLUTION WILL RESULT
IN THIS POINT SIX ACRE PARCEL
FROM OUR ONE C TO PUBLIC LAND
SO THAT IT CAN BE USED FOR
PUBLIC PARKLAND.
THE PROPOSED PROPOSED REZONING
IS CONSISTENT WITH THE ADJACENT
ZONING THE SURROUNDING LAND
USES AND THE CITY'S
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
THEREFORE WE CAN FEEL JUST
GREAT ABOUT APPROVING IT WILL
ALSO MAKE IT POSSIBLE TO
RESTORE A BASKETBALL COURT TO
THE COMMUNITY LIVING AT WEST
ARBER, WHICH IS A 42 TOWN HOME
AND ARBOR HOUSING COMMISSION
SITE ADJACENT TO THESE PARCELS
THAT BASKETBALL COURT COURT WAS
REPLACED WITH A LITTLE KID
PLAYGROUND ABOUT A DECADE AGO
WHEN THE HOUSING COMMISSION
SITE WAS REDEVELOPED.
ALTHOUGH THE PLAYGROUND WAS
WELCOME AND LITTLE KIDS ARE
GREAT, THE BASKETBALL COURT WAS
MISSED SO IT IS EXCITING TO
BRING IT BACK FOR THE
DISCUSSION OF V1 OUR FAVOR OR
OPPOSE IT IS APPROVED SEEWHY
THE NORDEN'S TO AMEND SECTION
FIVE THREE TO TWO OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY BANABA
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DIFFS SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C ONE
COUNCILOR BRITISH THIS IS A
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE UDC
THE CITY'S DEVELOPMENT
CODE THAT WILL MAKE IT LESS
BURDENSOME TO ALTER
NONCOMMERCIAL FORMING
STRUCTURES.
>> PEOPLE MAKE SOME OF THESE
ALTERATIONS SOMETIMES TO
ACCOMMODATE GREATER RESIDENTIAL
DENSITY ALTERNATION ALTERATIONS
TO NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES
FREQUENTLY COME BEFORE THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS AND
OVER THE LAST TEN YEARS THE
ZIBA HAS APPROVED NEARLY ALL
OF THEM.
THAT RECORD SUGGESTS THAT OUR
CURRENT STANDARD IS MRS ALIGNED
WITH OUR CURRENT PRACTICES AND
PRIORITIES AND WHEN WE HAVE
THAT KIND OF MISALIGNMENT IT
UNDULY BURDENS RESIDENTS AND
MISALLOCATE STAFF TIME.
SO THE AMENDMENT SPECIFIES FOUR
CONDITIONS THAT MUST BE MET TO
ALLOW AN ALTERATION TO ANY TYPE
OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE YOU
CAN READ THOSE CONDITIONS IN
THE TEXT OF THE ORDINANCE BUT
I'LL GIVE YOU A FEW EXAMPLES
OF PROJECTS THAT WOULD NO
LONGER REQUIRE ZIBA APPROVAL.
>> ONE WOULD BE ADDING
HABITABLE SPACE TO A BASEMENT
OR ATTIC PROVIDED YOU DON'T
CHANGE THE FOOTPRINT OF THE NON
CONFORMING LOCK.
SECOND, MAKING AN ADDITION THAT
ADDS FLOOR AREA WHICH PRETTY
MUCH IS WHAT IN ADDITION DOES
TO AN EXISTING HOUSE AND THAT
EXISTING HOUSE DOES NOT
CURRENTLY MEET THE SETBACK
REQUIREMENTS.
THE ADDITION DOESN'T MAKE THAT
NONCONFORMITY ANY WORSE.
>> AND FINALLY PUTTING A ONE
STOREY EDITION ON TOP OF A
GROUND FLOOR STORY THAT IS
NONCONFORMING THE ONE STOREY
EDITION DOES NOT INCREASE THE
NON CONFORMITY.
>> SO IF YOU THINK ALL THOSE
THINGS ARE FINE TO GO FORWARD
WITHOUT ZIBA SCRUTINY AND TIME
STAFF TAKES TO PREPARE AND ETC
ETC. PLEASE JOIN ME.
>> THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
AND CITY PLANNING COMMISSION IN
RECOMMENDING ACTUALLY ENACTING
APPROVAL THEY RECOMMENDED WE
SHOULD DEMAND FURTHER
DISCUSSION COUNCIL RACKMAN
THANK YOU.
AND THE COUNCIL IS UNTIL THE
ZEBA AND WE ACTUALLY INITIATED
THIS BECAUSE WE SEE REQUEST
AFTER REQUEST AFTER REQUEST
THAT FITS IN THIS CATEGORY
OF THINGS AND THE ZIBA WAS
GETTING VERY FRUSTRATED
CONSTANTLY APPROVING THEM.
YOU MENTIONED THE KIND OF COST
AND STAFF TIME BUT THIS ALSO
COMES WITH THE REAL COST TO
PEOPLE WHO WANT TO MAKE THESE
CHANGES.
SO TO SEE PEOPLE COME IN FOR
SIMILAR REQUESTS THAT DON'T
INCREASE NONCONFORMITY KNOWING
THAT YOU'RE PUTTING THEM
THROUGH THIS EXPENSE AND QUOTE
UNQUOTE UNCERTAINTY EVEN THOUGH
WE APPROVE WE HAVE APPROVED
THEM ALL IN THE TIME THE TWO
YEARS I'VE BEEN ON THE BOARD.
THIS IS JUST A REALLY POSITIVE
CHANGE AND IT'S SOMETHING THAT
THE CBA HAS BEEN REALLY WANTING
FOR A LONG TIME.
SO I'M VERY EXCITED TO SEE THIS
COME FORWARD AND WILL BE
SUPPORTING IT FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OR OPPOSED
IT IS APPROVED.
>> DO YOU SEE ONE RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE A PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
AGREEMENT WITH NEW GEN
STRATEGIES AND SOLUTIONS LLC TO
COMPLETE AN ELECTRIC GRID
ASSESSMENT EVALUATION
OF MUNICIPAL AND STUDYING THE
MATTER OF ONE MILLION SEVEN
HUNDRED TWENTY EIGHT THOUSAND
DOLLARS MOVE BY COUNCILOR DENHA
SECOND I CAN'T REMEMBER THIS
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC ONE
COUNCILOR MELICK OH I WANT TO
THANK EVERYONE WHO CAME HERE
TONIGHT TO VOICE THEIR THOUGHTS
ON THIS AGENDA ITEM AS WELL AS
THE MANY FOLKS WHO HAVE EMAILED
OR TALKED TO ME IN PERSON OVER
THE PAST FEW MONTHS.
I KNOW I'M NOT ALONE IN SAYING
THAT I HAVE BEEN CONTACTED A
LOT ABOUT THIS TOPIC.
THIS IS A TOPIC THAT MAKES ME
PROUD TO LIVE IN ANN ARBOR
UTILITIES AND POSSIBLE
MUNICIPAL ZATION IS A VERY
COMPLEX TOPIC BUT THAT HAS NOT
STOPPED EVERYONE THEIR MOTHER
FROM VOICING THEIR DETAILED
THOUGHTS ON THE MATTER AND FOR
THAT I AM GRATEFUL I APPROACHED
TONIGHT'S DECISION LEANING ON A
HANDFUL OF ASSUMPTIONS FIRST,
THE SERVICE PROVIDED BY
INVESTOR OWNED UTILITIES IS NOT
ADEQUATE.
THEIR SERVICE RECORD HAS
PROVIDED US SOME OF THE MOST
EXPENSIVE BUT LEAST RELIABLE
POWER IN THE COUNTRY.
SECOND, THE STATE IS THE LEGAL
REGULATOR OF UTILITIES IN
MICHIGAN BUT FOR A VARIETY
OF REASONS THE STATE WILL NOT
GO BEYOND BUSINESS AS USUAL.
STATE AUTHORITIES WILL NOT BE
COMING TO THE RESCUE TO FORCE
OUR UTILITIES TO DO BETTER.
THIRD, OUR INVESTOR OWNED
UTILITIES USE A PORTION OF OUR
MONTHLY ENERGY BILLS TO LOBBY
ELECTED OFFICIALS.
THIS LOBBYING HELPS LOCK IN THE
STATUS QUO OF MINIMAL
REGULATION AT THE STATE LEVEL
AS WELL AS ADDITIONAL LOBBYING
AGAINST A HOST OF OTHER GOOD
ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION THAT
WE SUPPORT HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
LASTLY, THEREFORE LOCAL
MUNICIPALITIES ARE ON OUR OWN
TO FIND SOLUTIONS.
GIVEN THIS REALITY, WE OWE IT
TO OURSELVES TO EXPLORE EVERY
POTENTIAL OPTION TO SOLVE OUR
ENERGY NEEDS OF WHICH THERE ARE
SEVERAL INCLUDING TONIGHT'S
DECISION TO FURTHER STEPS
TOWARDS FORMING A CIVILIZATION
.
I BELIEVE TONIGHT'S VOTE FOR A
PHASE TWO STUDY IS A CRUCIAL
STEP TO DETERMINE WHERE WE GO
AS A CITY WHILE IT COMES TO
SUBSTANTIAL PRICE TAG.
I SEE THIS STUDY AS A SHORT
TERM COST THAT COULD COME WITH
A LONG TERM GAIN.
>> I DON'T KNOW THE ANSWER TO
WHAT ANN ARBOR SHOULD DO WITH
RESPECT TO THE FUTURE OF OUR
ELECTRIC UTILITY.
BUT I DO KNOW PASSING DC ONE
AND DC TWO TONIGHT WILL HELP ME
MAKE AN INFORMED DECISION ON
WHETHER PURSUING FULMINATES
LIKE MUNICIPAL IZATION IS WORTH
IT OR WHETHER
WE SHOULD PURSUE
OTHER ALTERNATIVES BECAUSE
OF THIS I PLAN ON VOTING YES ON
THIS RESOLUTION TONIGHT COUNCIL
A DENHA THANK YOU MAYOR.
AS WE CAN SEE HERE TONIGHT THIS
IS A TOPIC OF BROAD COMMUNITY
INTEREST AND DISCUSSION FOR
YEARS OUR CONSTITUENTS ARE
ADVISORY BODIES LIKE THE ENERGY
COMMISSION AND THIS BODY ITSELF
HAVE ENGAGED IN DISCUSSIONS
ABOUT THE PROSPECT MUNICIPAL
ASSOCIATION AT THE ENERGY
COMMISSION EARLIER IN MY FIRST
TERM WE HEARD PRESENTATIONS
FROM REPRESENTATIVES IN PLACES
WHERE MUNICIPAL WAS SUCCESSFUL
LIKE WINTER PARK, FLORIDA AND
FROM PLACES WHERE THEY WERE NOT
LIKE BOULDER, COLORADO OF NOTE
BOULDER REPRESENTATIVES
INDICATED TO US THAT IF THEY
COULD DO IT ALL OVER AGAIN
KNOWING THEY WOULD LOSE THEIR
FIGHT THEY WOULD BECAUSE EVEN
WITHOUT ACHIEVING A
CIVILIZATION THEY ARE FORCED TO
SELL THEIR VERSION OF GTE TO
MAKE CONSIDERABLE CONCESSIONS,
ACHIEVING HUGE INVESTMENTS AND
IMPROVING THEIR INFRASTRUCTURE.
RENEWABLE ENERGY AND
RELIABILITY OF THEIR GRID AND
SETTING AMBITIOUS GOAL CLIMATE
GOALS LIKE AN 80 PERCENT
CARBON REDUCTION AND FULLY
RETIRING COAL GENERATION BY 20,
30 AND 100 PERCENT CARBON FREE
ENERGY BY TWENTY FIFTY LAST
YEAR VOTERS RIGHT HERE IN ANN
ARBOR EMBRACED A SMALLER SCALE
MONEY THROUGH A SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY UTILITY.
AND WHILE I TOO HAVE QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE FINANCIAL FEASIBILITY
OF FULL SCALE MUNICIPAL ZATION,
THIS VOTE IS ABOUT GETTING
HONEST ANSWERS TO THOSE
QUESTIONS.
IT'S ABOUT PROVIDING AN
INDEPENDENT ANALYSIS ON WHICH
THE CITY CAN RELY TO UNDERSTAND
THE TRUE COSTS OF MUNICIPAL
TAXATION AND IT'S ABOUT
ENSURING THAT THE CITY
CONTINUES TO HAVE A SEAT AT THE
TABLE AND AS WELL-PREPARED AS
THIS CONVERSATION CONTINUES AND
I'M CONFIDENT THAT REGARDLESS
OF THE OUTCOME OF TONIGHT'S
VOTE IS CLEAR THAT THIS
CONVERSATION AND MOVEMENT WILL
CONTINUE WITH THE STATE
GOVERNMENT FAILING TO AUTHORIZE
COMMUNITY CHOICE AGGREGATION,
LEGISLATORS OF BOTH PARTIES
FAILING TO ACCOUNTABLE AND THE
MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION UNCONSCIONABLY
APPROVING RATE INCREASE AFTER
RATE INCREASE DESPITE
OBJECTIONS FROM ALL OVER THE
STATE INCLUDING FROM CITIES
LIKE OURS AND EXACTLY BECAUSE
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS
INCREASINGLY HOSTILE TO THE
SCIENCE AND REALITY OF CLIMATE
CHANGE WITH THE GOAL
OF COMMUNITY WIDE
CARBON NEUTRALITY QUICKLY
APPROACHING IN 2030 AND THE
REALITY OF ANY OTHER
ALTERNATIVE TO ACHIEVING IT
QUICKLY FADING AND FINALLY
KNOWING THAT IS NOT GOING TO
SUDDENLY SHIFT THEIR CORPORATE
GOALS TO REFLECT THE
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS OF OUR
COMMUNITY.
I BELIEVE THAT WE AS A CITY
SHOULD CONTINUE MOVING THIS
CONVERSATION FORWARD.
>> I WILL BE VOTING YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER AKMAN THANK YOU.
>> SO WE ALL KNOW WHY WE'RE
HERE TONIGHT.
WE'RE HERE BECAUSE DTT HAS
FAILED AND OUR RESIDENTS WE'VE
ALL WATCHED OUR NEIGHBORS
RESPOND TO REPEATED FAILURES,
PEOPLE FORCED TO BUY GENERATORS
,INSTALL SOLAR WITH BATTERY
BACKUPS IF THEY CAN AFFORD IT
OR OTHERWISE SUFFER THROUGH
POWER OUTAGES THAT COST THEM
HUNDREDS OF DOLLARS IN LOST
FOOD AND EXPENSIVE HOTEL STAYS
JUST TO STAY WARM.
THIS IS UNACCEPTABLE.
AND AS FOR DTES STUDY, I THREW
IT RIGHT IN THE TRASH.
>> THEY'RE NOT A RELIABLE
SOURCE BUT WE DO KNOW SOME
THINGS FROM THE STUDY THAT WAS
CONDUCTED AS PART OF THE PHASE
ONE STUDY.
WE KNOW THAT THE PRIORITIES
OF OUR RESIDENTS ARE
RELIABILITY AND COST AND I
THINK THAT THESE PRIORITIES
HAVE TO GUIDE THE DECISIONS
THAT WE MAKE IN THIS RESPECT.
>> WE KNOW THAT ACQUIRING DATA
IS DISTRIBUTION ASSETS AND ANN
ARBOR WILL BE EXTREMELY COSTLY.
IT'S TRUE WE DON'T KNOW THE
RANGE.
WE HAVE AN ESTIMATE FROM THE
FIRST STUDY BETWEEN TWO HUNDRED
AND EIGHTY ONE MILLION DOLLARS
AND ONE POINT ONE FIVE BILLION
WITH SIGNIFICANT UNCERTAINTY IN
THE LEGAL AND REGULATORY
OUTCOMES BEYOND THE ACQUISITION
COST THE CITY WOULD NEED TO
INVEST ANOTHER TENS OF MILLIONS
UPWARDS OF ONE HUNDRED MILLION
DOLLARS IN SUBSTATIONS AND
TRANSMISSION INFRASTRUCTURE
JUST TO OPERATE THE MTA.
THE LEGAL FIGHT ALONE WILL BE
LENGTHY, EXPENSIVE AND
CONTENTIOUS WILL USE EVERY
LEGAL TOOL AVAILABLE TO DELAY,
OBSTRUCT AND EXTRACT THE
HIGHEST POSSIBLE VALUE AND VERY
FEW COMMUNITIES HAVE
SUCCESSFULLY TAKEN OVER THEIR
INVESTOR OWNED UTILITY EVEN
AFTER SPENDING TENS OF MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS TRYING.
THE FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS ARE
MIXED IN THE BEST CASE SCENARIO
FROM THE PHASE ONE STUDY RATES
COULD BE NINE PERCENT LOWER
THAN DETI BUT IN THE WORST CASE
THAT COULD BE THIRTY EIGHT
PERCENT HIGHER AND CRITICALLY
THE STUDY DID NOT EVALUATE THE
RELIABILITY IMPROVEMENTS IT
ASSUMED INFRASTRUCTURE
REPLACEMENT OVER TIME BUT IT
DID NOT PROJECT COST FOR
UPGRADING THE AGING AND POORLY
MAINTAINED SYSTEM WHICH IS THE
MAIN REASON I THINK THAT
RESIDENTS ARE FRUSTRATED WITH
DETI IN THE FIRST PLACE.
NOW WE'RE BEING ASKED TO SPEND
TWO MILLION DOLLARS ON A PHASE
TWO STUDY DOUBLE THE INITIAL
ESTIMATE OF ONE MILLION
DOLLARS.
BUT WHAT IS THIS GOING TO TELL
US THAT WE DON'T KNOW AND WHERE
IS IT GOING TO GET US?
I DON'T THINK AND OUR SITUATION
IS LIKE THE OTHER MUNICIPAL
UTILITY IS THAT IT'S BEING
COMPARED TO ADVOCATES
FREQUENTLY POINT TO CHELSEA
LANSING, RIVERCITY WIND HOLLAND
NOTING THAT THESE CITIES HAVE
LOWER RATES AND BETTER
RELIABILITY THAN ALL TRUE BUT
WE CAN'T PRETEND THE ENTIRE
SITUATION IS COMPARABLE TO
CITIES THAT CREATED ME A COUPLE
UTILITIES IN THE LATE EIGHTEEN
HUNDREDS AND EARLY NINETEEN
HUNDREDS THOSE CITIES DON'T THE
GRIDS FROM THE GROUND UP I
DIDN'T HAVE A BUYOUT AND
ENTRENCHED INVESTOR OWNED
MONOPOLY THAT HAS EVERY
INCENTIVE TO FIGHT A TAKEOVER
AT EVERY TURN THEY HAVE SPENT
OVER A CENTURY MAINTAINING AND
MODERNIZING THEIR
INFRASTRUCTURE AND OUR BILL
WOULD BE STARTING OUT BY
PURCHASING A DETERIORATING
SYSTEM THAT NEEDS BILLIONS AND
UPGRADES NEED TWO MILLION
DOLLARS AND ANOTHER STUDY
DOESN'T CHANGE THESE FACTS NOR
DOES IT PROMISE AN OUTCOME THAT
WE WANT ONE THAT WILL DELIVER
RELIABILITY AND DELIVER ON THE
COST CONCERNS THAT MATTER MOST
TO RESIDENTS.
SO I WANT TO BE CLEAR I SUPPORT
TAKING BOLD ACTION ON CLIMATE
ACTION AND CLEAN ENERGY.
I SUPPORT LOCAL RENEWABLE
GENERATION AND REDUCING OUR
DEPENDANCE ON DTG BUT I THINK
RATHER THAN FOCUSING ON BUYING
A GRID I PASSED THIS GRID.
WE NEED TO FOCUS ON INVESTING
IN THE GRID OF THE FUTURE.
>> THIS IS WHY I'M VOTING NO
COUNCIL NO HIGHER.
>> THANK YOU.
I'LL BE BRIEF I I'LL BE
SUPPORTING THIS TONIGHT FOR FOR
TWO MAIN REASONS.
ONE PHILOSOPHICALLY I BELIEVE
IN PUBLIC POWER.
I BELIEVE THAT POWER IS A
NECESSITY LIKE WATER.
IT IS NOT SOMETHING THAT SHOULD
BE PROFITED FROM.
I GREW UP IN LANSING UNDER THE
BOARD OF WATER AND LIGHT SYSTEM
AND ALWAYS APPRECIATED THAT
THAT THE MONEY THAT WAS
GENERATED WAS REINVESTED INTO
THE SYSTEM RATHER THAN GOING TO
SHAREHOLDERS WHO LIVE ELSEWHERE
.
>> SO PHILOSOPHICALLY THAT'S
WHERE I AM ON IT.
IF I HAD BEEN ON THE CITY
COUNCIL WHEN WE WERE INITIALLY
SETTING UP THE SYSTEM I WOULD
HAVE I WOULD HAVE DONE IT AS A
PUBLIC ENTITY.
>> I CERTAINLY APPRECIATE
CONCERNS THAT HAVE BEEN RAISED
BOTH BY SOME OF MY ONE OF MY
COUNCIL MEMBERS AT LEAST SO FAR
AND AND OTHERS IN THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT THE OVERALL COST, THE
LONG ROAD AHEAD FOR THIS
ENDEAVOR AND FRANKLY THE
UNCERTAIN TIMES THAT WE'RE IN
RIGHT NOW FOR MY PART I JUST
FEEL LIKE I HAVE SUPPORTED THIS
FROM THE BEGINNING.
I RECOGNIZE THAT IT DOES HAVE
STRONG SUPPORT IN THE
COMMUNITY, PARTICULARLY FROM A
LOT OF CONSTITUENTS IN MY WARD
AND I NEED TO KEEP MY WORD SO
EVEN I'M FEELING A LITTLE LESS
CERTAIN ABOUT IT RIGHT NOW WITH
WITH WHAT'S GOING ON AT THE
FEDERAL LEVEL AND EVEN AT THE
STATE LEVEL IN TERMS OF OUR
FUNDING.
>> UM, I I WANT TO MAKE GOOD ON
THE PROMISES THAT I'VE THAT
I'VE MADE AND AND CONTINUE TO
SUPPORT THIS AND I THINK IT'S
GOING TO PROVIDE US WITH A LOT
OF GREAT INFORMATION THAT WE
WILL NEED TO MAKE AN INFORMED
DECISION AFTERWARDS.
SO I DON'T THINK THAT WE'RE
THERE YET WITH THE FIRST STUDY
WE WE WE NEED A LOT MORE
INFORMATION.
SO FOR THESE REASONS I WILL BE
SUPPORTING THIS TONIGHT.
COUNCIL MEMBER JOSH, I AM SO
PLEASED TO SEE THIS ROOM
TONIGHT SO FULL OF THOUGHTFUL,
COMMITTED, PASSIONATE
ACTIVISTS.
>> I AM GRATEFUL FOR YOUR WORK
BUT I WILL BE VOTING NO ON THIS
ITEM TONIGHT.
I HAVE NOT PERSONALLY REACHED A
JUDGMENT FOR OR AGAINST
MUNICIPAL CAUSATION AND I SHARE
YOUR BELIEF THAT IF I AND OTHER
RESIDENTS ARE TO VOTE UP OR
DOWN ON MUNICIPAL CAUSATION WE
NEED MORE INFORMATION.
AND I ALSO BELIEVE THAT A PHASE
TWO STUDY WOULD OFFER IMPORTANT
INFORMATION TO HELP US
THOUGHTFULLY CONSIDER THAT VOTE
.
MUNICIPAL CAUSATION IS A LONG
ROAD AND IN THE CURRENT
POLITICAL CLIMATE AND
INVESTMENT OF THIS SIZE TO
INITIATE THAT JOURNEY PUTS AT
RISK CRITICAL WORK THAT THE
CITY IS ALREADY DOING RIGHT NOW
ON THE GROUND TO DECREASE AND
ARBOR'S CARBON EMISSIONS AND
LOWER ENERGY COSTS FOR AN
ARBITRATES WHO CAN LEAST AFFORD
TO PAY TOO MUCH FOR POWER?
I'M TALKING ABOUT THE WORK
OF THE OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY
AND INNOVATION IN THE BRYANT
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT IS HAVING
MEASURABLE, MEASURABLE RESULTS.
>> IT IS LOWERING ENERGY BILLS
FOR OUR MOST VULNERABLE
RESIDENTS BY IMPROVING ENERGY
EFFICIENCY IN THEIR HOUSEHOLD.
THE COST OF THAT 200000 DOLLARS
ANNUALLY.
THE SOURCE FOR THAT FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT FUNDS WITH A LOCAL
MATCH THE UNCERTAINTY WE DON'T
KNOW IF WE WILL LOSE THESE
FUNDS CERTAINTY WE KNOW THAT
THERE WILL NOT BE ANY MORE
OF THEM.
HERE'S A PLACE WHERE A PIECE
OF THIS TWO MILLION DOLLAR
INVESTMENT COULD ENSURE THAT
THIS WORK CONTINUES GOING
FORWARD.
NOT THAT I'M COMMITTING FUNDS.
>> THIS WORK ALSO INCLUDES WHAT
AVALON HOUSING IS DOING TO
SERVE AND HOUSE 250 WASHTENAW
COUNTY RESIDENTS INCLUDING 63
CHILDREN WITH SUPPORTIVE
HOUSING SERVICES AND RENTAL
ASSISTANCE.
>> THE COST HERE IS OVER A
MILLION ANNUALLY.
THIS WORK IS IN JEOPARDY FROM
THE PEOPLE WHO NOW CONTROL THE
WHITE HOUSE IN JUST OVER A
MONTH A SICKENING MONTH THEY
HAVE SHOWN THEMSELVES WILLING
TO DEFY LEGAL GUARDRAILS TO
HALT PRECISELY THIS ON THE
GROUND WORK ON CLIMATE AND
JUSTICE.
THEY DISALLOW THESE
VERY WORDS
AND THEY ARE REACHING DEEP INTO
LOCAL COMMUNITY BUDGETS TO
SQUEEZE OFF FUNDING TO THAT
WORK AND INTIMIDATING THOSE WHO
DO IT.
>> THE ADMINISTRATION IS NOT
WORRIED ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT
WHAT THEY ARE DOING IS LEGAL
BECAUSE THEY KNOW THAT BY THE
TIME THE COURTS CATCH UP WITH
THEM THAT WORK WILL HAVE
STOPPED AND THE PEOPLE WHO DID
IT WILL HAVE MOVED ON TO OTHER
JOBS FIVE YEARS AGO IN THE
DELIBERATIONS OVER THE 2020
BUDGET DURING THE FIRST MONTHS
OF THE CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC
COUNCIL VOTED TO POSTPONE
FUNDING FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PLAN.
>> IT'S NOT THAT THE PLAN
WASN'T IMPORTANT BUT IT WAS
THAT IN THE UNCERTAINTY THAT
TIME OF A NATURAL UNCERTAINTY
NOT AN INSANE HUMAN UNCERTAINTY
THAT EXPENDITURE COULD BE
POSTPONED.
>> AND FOR ME TONIGHT IN THIS
NEW CONTEXT OF UNCERTAINTY THAT
IS TERRIFYING.
>> A PHASE TWO STUDY LOOKS TO
ME LIKE A VALUED PROJECT THAT
CAN BE POSTPONED.
SO I CANNOT TONIGHT HAVING
LIVED THROUGH THE PAST SIX
WEEKS OF FEDERAL ACTION VOTE TO
SPEND TWO MILLION OR ONE POINT
SEVEN MILLION WHICHEVER THE
NUMBER IS TO MOVE FORWARD WITH
THE STUDY.
FOR MY PART, IF WE WERE IF WE
ARE STARTING SOCIETY DAY,
THERE'S NO QUESTION IN MY MIND
THAT THE PUBLIC WOULD OWN OUR
ELECTRIC UTILITY JUST AS WE ON
OUR WATER UTILITY AND IT MAKES
IT MAKES SENSE THAT THE THAT
THE PUBLIC OWN ELECTRIC
GENERATION DISTRIBUTION AND
REPAIR THE UTILITY FOR THE
PUBLIC FOR THE PUBLIC GOOD IS
ALL WE OWN.
AS WE ALL KNOW WE ARE NOT
STARTING SOCIETY TODAY WE HAVE
AN INVESTOR OWNED UTILITY WITH
A PERPETUAL FRANCHISE REGULATED
BY THE PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION.
THIS UTILITY DOES NOT OPERATE
FOR THE PUBLIC GOOD PROVIDE
SERVICES TO ITS CUSTOMERS
OF COURSE, BUT IT IS OWNED BY
ITS SHAREHOLDERS AND ULTIMATELY
WORKS FOR THEIR BENEFIT.
>> WE HAVE THE LEGAL ABILITY TO
TAKE CONTROL OF OUR
ELECTROCUTES CITY BUT TO
ACCOMPLISH THIS END WILL COME
AT SOME COST PERHAPS RESIDENTS
WILL CONCLUDE THAT THAT COST IS
BEARABLE.
PERHAPS THEY WILL CONCLUDE THEY
WILL NOT THAT IT IS NOT.
BUT AT THIS POINT THAT COST IS
UNKNOWN.
>> THE STUDY BEFORE US HOWEVER,
WOULD HELP BEGIN TO DETERMINE
THAT COST AND SO THAT WE WOULD
BE IN A POSITION ULTIMATELY TO
ASK THE VOTERS THEY WANT TO
TAKE THAT NEXT STEP TO SEIZE
THE UTILITY WITH A FULL
UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT IT WOULD
MEAN TO THEM AS TAXPAYERS AND
RATEPAYERS A PUBLIC UTILITY
OPERATED FOR THE GOOD OF THE
PUBLIC IT COULD ACCOMPLISH
GREAT THINGS OVER TIME REAL AND
TRANSFORMATIVE ADVANCES IN
TERMS OF OUR CLIMATE GOALS,
RESILIENCY AND RESIDENT
EXPERIENCE.
THE QUESTION OF PUBLIC
OWNERSHIP OF OUR FULL ELECTRIC
UTILITY IS IMPORTANT TO
AMERICA'S FUTURE AND IT
WARRANTS PUBLIC CONSIDERATION
WITH A FULL UNDERSTANDING
OF THE POTENTIAL COSTS A
CONSIDERATION THAT IS NOT
POSSIBLE WITHOUT A FACE TO
STUDY.
AND IF WE PREVIEW THE NEXT
RESOLUTION SHOULD FACE TO PASS
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THE COSTS
ASSOCIATED WITH LITIGATION AND
ADDITIONAL STUDIES NECESSARY TO
CONDEMN ELECTRIC ASSETS,
MAINTAIN THEM, IMPROVE THEM AND
EXPAND DISTRIBUTION CAPACITY
AND ULTIMATELY OPERATE THE
WHOLE THE QUESTION OF WHETHER
WE MUNICIPAL UTILITY IS SO
PRESENT IN THE COMMUNITY AND
OF SUCH IMPORTANCE TO OUR
COMMUNITY THAT IN MY VIEW IT'S
WORTH SPENDING WHAT IS
ADMITTEDLY A CONSIDERABLE
AMOUNT IN AN UNCERTAIN TIME TO
MOVE THE PROCESS FORWARD.
>> AND SO I'M GOING TO BE
VOTING YES.
COUNCILOR WATSON
, LOOK AROUND
THIS ROOM IS ENOUGH TO TELL YOU
THAT THERE ARE MANY IN THIS
COMMUNITY WHO WANT MORE
INFORMATION ON THE QUESTION
OF MUNICIPAL IZATION.
RESIDENTS MAY EVENTUALLY BE
ASKED TO VOTE ON THIS QUESTION
WHICH COULD COME IN THE FORM
OF A CITIZEN LED BALLOT
INITIATIVE APPROVING ONE WOULD
ALLOW THE CITY TO GIVE
RESIDENTS AN AUTHORITATIVE
SOURCE ON THE COST
OF HOSPITALIZATION.
>> THERE'S NO QUESTION THAT
THERE IS MUCH UNCERTAINTY AHEAD
AND ONE POINT SEVEN DOLLARS
MILLION IS A SIGNIFICANT SIR.
BUT I'M MORE COMFORTABLE WITH
IT BECAUSE OF THE WAY IT HAS
BEEN BUDGETED FOR THE QUESTION
OF THE PHASE TWO VALUATION'S
STUDY WAS RAISED BY PUBLIC
POWER ADVOCATES IN MY FIRST
BUDGET CYCLE IN THE SPRING
OF 2003.
>> AT THAT TIME WITH THE
RESULTS OF ANN ARBOR PATHWAYS
TO RENEWABLE ENERGY STUDIES
STILL OUTSTANDING COUNCIL IS
ASKED IN PUBLIC COMMENT TO
APPROVE OF FIVE HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS PLACEHOLDER IN
THE BUDGET FOR A FOR A PHASE
TWO STUDY COUNCIL DID NOT AMEND
THE BUDGET AT THAT TIME AND I
AGREED WITH THAT DECISION
BECAUSE WE DIDN'T HAVE THE
RESULTS OF THE PHASE ONE STUDY
AND A REVENUE SOURCE FOR PHASE
TWO STUDY HADN'T BEEN
IDENTIFIED IN EARLY TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR DURING THIS FISCAL
YEAR 2005 BUDGET PRESENTATION
ADMINISTRATOR HONY WENT OUT AND
FOUND A REVENUE SOURCE FOR THE
PHASE TWO STUDY THEN ESTIMATED
TO BE ONE MILLION BY
IDENTIFYING A POTENTIAL ARETZ
TRANSACTION.
THIS IS REVENUE WE WOULD NOT
HAVE HAD WERE NOT FOR THAT
ACTION BY THE ADMINISTRATOR
AFTER THE FOIA 25 BUDGET WAS
APPROVED, COUNCIL FOUND OUT THE
STUDY WOULD BE CLOSER TO TWO
MILLION DOLLARS AND WE WOULD
NEED MORE THAN JUST AN AVERAGE
TRANSACTION AT THE END OF THE
OF LAST YEAR COUNCIL VOTED TO
ALLOCATE ONE MILLION OF TWO
POINT SEVEN DOLLARS MILLION IN
UNCONTESTABLE REVENUE TO
COVER THE REMAINING AMOUNT
NEEDED FOR THIS FOR THE STUDY.
THIS CAME FROM A SURPLUS ABOVE
THE TWENTY PERCENT FUND BALANCE
WHICH IS AT THE TOP OF OUR
RECOMMENDED RANGE.
SO IN REVIEWING THIS TIMELINE
THIS IS ABOUT AS WELL AS THE
CITY CAN PLAN FOR A LARGE
ALLOCATION FUNDING.
THE STUDY AMOUNTS TO SPENDING
ONE POINT SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS
A A POTENTIAL MULTIBILLION
DOLLAR DECISION.
THE QUESTION CIVILIZATION ISN'T
GOING AWAY AND IT COULD COME TO
VOTERS WITH OR WITHOUT COUNCIL
ACTION SINCE THE CITY ONLY
RECEIVED ONE RESPONSE TO ITS
RFP, IT'S LIKELY THAT THE PRICE
OF THE STUDY WILL ONLY GO UP IN
THE FUTURE.
THIS HAS BEEN A HARD VOTE FOR
ME IN LIGHT OF DECISIONS AT THE
FEDERAL LEVEL AND THE LOCAL
IMPACT FELT BY SOCIAL SERVICES
PROVIDERS.
MOST RECENTLY I HEARD DIRECTLY
FROM NONPROFITS AT LAST
WEDNESDAY'S MEETING OF THE
COMMUNITY ACTION BOARD WHICH
ADVISES THE COUNTY ON ISSUES
AFFECTING LOW INCOME RESIDENTS.
ALL TOLD, THE IMPACT OF FEDERAL
BUDGET CHOICES JUST ON OUR
NONPROFIT SERVICE PROVIDERS
YEARLY BUDGETS COULD NUMBER IN
THE TENS OF MILLIONS ADDRESSING
COMMUNITY NEEDS IN THE FACE
OF TROUBLE NOT BE SOLVED BY ONE
BULLET BUDGET ALLOCATION BUT BY
A SERIES OF DECISIONS OF THE
CITY, COUNTY AND STATE LEVEL.
I DON'T BLAME ANYONE FOR VOTING
ON THIS STUDY AND I URGE US TO
CONTINUE SOCIALES TO CONSIDER
SOCIAL SERVICES SPENDING
CAREFULLY THE NEXT BUDGET CYCLE
I WILL SUPPORT THE STUDY
BECAUSE I BELIEVE THE
INFORMATION IS VALUABLE TO
RESIDENTS AND I BELIEVE WITHOUT
IT WE RISK GAINING CLARITY ON
COSTS AND THAT COULD RESULT IN
MORE EXPENSES ON COUNCIL MEMBER
GOZI.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
SO THANK YOU MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY FOR BEING HERE
TONIGHT AND FOR SHARING YOUR
THOUGHTS.
I AGREE WITH YOU AND SHARE THE
FRUSTRATION SURROUNDING THIS
ISSUE AND FRUSTRATION AND THE
ONGOING CHALLENGES THAT WE
CONTINUE TO FACE IN ACHIEVING
ENERGY EQUITY AND RESILIENCE AT
THIS TIME I CANNOT SUPPORT A
FACE TO STUDY CURRENTLY BECAUSE
OF THE COMPLETE UNCERTAINTY
THAT WE ARE FACING AT THE
FEDERAL LEVEL AND AT THE LOCAL
LEVEL.
FEDERAL FUNDING HAS BEEN PULLED
FROM OUR SOCIAL SERVICES THAT
SERVE OUR MOST VULNERABLE
RESIDENTS, OUR CHILDREN AND OUR
FAMILIES AND TIMES OF COMPLETE
CRISIS.
MY WORK AT THE UNIVERSITY
INVOLVES THAT I WORK VERY
CLOSELY WITH VARIOUS SOCIAL
SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS AND I'M
AWARE THAT A RECENT MEETING
OF AN URBAN NONPROFIT ORGANIZED
SHARE THAT THEY'RE COLLECTIVELY
FACING MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN
LOSSES.
>> THAT INCLUDES THE COMMUNITY
ACTION NETWORK, AN ORGANIZATION
IN MY WARD, ONE OF THE ONLY
ORGANIZATIONS IN THE CITY THAT
PROVIDES AFTERSCHOOL SERVICES
FOR MAJORITY BLACK AND BROWN
CHILDREN.
>> THEY ARE ALSO LOSING THEIR
ENTIRE AMERICORPS STAFF.
OTHER ORGANIZATIONS LIKE
NEUTRAL ZONE OZONA HOW SAFE IS
THE LAND OF SHELTER ARE ALL
LOSING MONEY AND RESOURCES TO
PROVIDE ESSENTIAL SERVICES FOR
THOSE WHO ARE HOUSING INSECURE
YOUTH AND OTHERS.
>> RIGHT NOW WE HAVE 14 PERCENT
OF FOOD THAT CAN DISTRIBUTE TO
OVER 20 PERCENT OF THE COUNTY
THAT HAS BEEN FROZEN AGAIN
THESE CRITICAL SOCIAL SERVICES
IMPACT CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
WITH THIS LEVEL OF NEED IN OUR
COMMUNITY AT THIS TIME I CANNOT
VOTE TO ALLOCATE ONE POINT
SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS TOWARDS
THE STUDY.
>> I ALSO UNDERSTAND THAT
ENERGY, RESILIENCE AND
INDEPENDENCE IS PART OF EQUITY
AND THAT THOSE WHO ARE MOST
MARGINALIZED SUFFER THE WORST
FROM THE STRONGHOLD THAT HAS ON
US.
I BELIEVE THAT BECAUSE OF THE
UNCERTAINTY THAT WE'RE FACING
THIS HAS TO BE A CAREFULLY
WEIGHED DECISION AND IN THIS
CURRENT CLIMATE IT'S NOT ONE
THAT WE CAN AFFORD.
I ALSO WANT TO BE CLEAR ABOUT
MY VALUES.
I BELIEVE THAT D.T. HAS BEEN
DESTRUCTIVE FOR OUR CITY AND
TWENTY TWENTY THREE AFTER THE
FEBRUARY ICE STORM AND AFTER
LOSING MY OWN PER FOR A WEEK
AND HELPING CONSTITUENTS IN MY
WARD INCLUDING AN OLDER ADULT
WHO HAD LOST HER POWER FOR A
WEEK I PUT FORTH THE RESOLUTION
REQUESTING THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO ENGAGE THE
MICHIGAN LEGISLATURE AND
MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION TO ADVANCE ENERGY
EQUITY RESILIENCE WHICH CODIFY
THE ABILITY FOR STAFF AND CITY
ATTORNEYS TO GO TO THE MICHIGAN
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION AND
ENTER LEGAL DISPUTES TO BLOCK
UNJUSTIFIED RATE HIKES.
>> IN FACT, ACCORDING TO A
PUBLIC MEMO RELEASED BY OUR
CITY ATTORNEYS TODAY, WE
SUCCESSFULLY FOUGHT DTRS
PROPOSAL RATE INCREASES FOR THE
PAST THREE YEARS, SAVING
HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
.
WE'RE NOT SIMPLY GOING TO SIT
BACK AND I DON'T PLAN TO SIMPLY
SIT BACK.
>> I'M HOPING THAT WE CAN
CONTINUE TO HAVE THIS
CONVERSATION AND THAT WE CAN
KEEP THOSE MOST MARGINALIZED
AND FOCUS AS WE CONTINUE TO
DEBATE THIS IMPORTANT ISSUE.
THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN HENDERSON
.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
>> THANK YOU ALL FOR COMING AND
FOR REACHING OUT TO US AND THE
CONVERSATIONS THAT YOU'VE HAD
WITH US.
I WANT TO LET YOU ALL KNOW THAT
I DO SUPPORT IMPROVING ENERGY,
RELIABILITY, AFFORDABILITY AND
THE TRANSITION TO CLEAN POWER.
I ALSO SHARE THE FRUSTRATION
THAT MANY RESIDENTS PROBABLY
MOST FEEL TOWARD D.T.
AND
BELIEVE WE MUST KEEP PUSHING
FOR BETTER SERVICE AND GREATER
ENERGY INDEPENDENCE.
>> THAT'S WHY I SUPPORT
INVESTING IN INITIATIVES THAT
MOVE US TOWARD THOSE THOSE
GOALS IN A RESPONSIBLE AND
SUSTAINABLE WAY RIGHT NOW AND
OBVIOUS FINANCIAL SITUATION I
BELIEVE DOES NOT SUPPORT
MUNICIPAL IZATION.
>> ACQUIRING INFRASTRUCTURE
WOULD REQUIRE A NEW CITY
MILLAGE POTENTIALLY ADDING A
LONG TERM FINANCIAL BURDEN ON
OUR RESIDENTS BEYOND THE COST
MUNICIPAL IZATION WOULD BE A
LEGAL COMPLEX PROCESS TAKING
YEARS OF LITIGATION WITH NO
GUARANTEED OUTCOME.
OTHER CITIES PURSUING MUNICIPAL
MUNICIPAL TAXATION HAVE SPENT
MILLIONS ON LEGAL FEES ALONE
WITH COST ESCALATING BASED ON
LITIGATION LENGTH AND
COMPLEXITY AT THE SAME TIME AND
NEVER HAS BEEN THE LEADING
LEADING THE FIGHT FOR ENERGY
JUSTICE.
WE HAVE BEEN THE PRIMARY AND AT
TIMES THE SOLE ADVOCATE AGAINST
HARMFUL POLICIES INCLUDING
UNFAIR RATE HIKES.
>> OUR ATTORNEYS HAVE
SUCCESSFULLY CHALLENGED THE
RATE ENERGY INCREASES BEFORE
THE MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION SAVING RATEPAYERS
MONEY.
WE'VE ALSO BUILT STRONG
PARTNERSHIPS ACROSS GOVERNMENT
AGENCIES TO PUSH FOR BETTER
OVERSIGHT AND ACCOUNTABILITY
GIVEN OUR FINANCIAL
UNCERTAINTIES.
>> AT THIS TIME I CANNOT
SUPPORT SPENDING NEARLY TWO
MILLION DOLLARS ON A PACE TO
STUDY FOR MUNICIPALITIES AT
THIS TIME ANN ARBOR IS ALREADY
AT RISK OF LOSING FEDERAL
FUNDING AND WE MAY HAVE TO MAKE
TOUGH CHOICES ABOUT EXISTING
PROGRAMS.
>> NOW IS NOT THE TIME TO TAKE
ON AN EXPENSIVE, UNCERTAIN
LEGAL FIGHT.
IF THE CITY WERE TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH MUNICIPAL
SYMBOLIZATION WE WOULD MOST
CERTAINLY NEED DEDICATED
FUNDING OR WE WOULD NEED
DEDICATED A DEDICATED FUNDING
SOURCE JUST FOR THE LITIGATION
AT LEAST THREE MILLION PER YEAR
FOR 10 YEARS JUST TO FIGHT THE
LEGAL BATTLE POTENTIALLY.
>> THAT'S BEFORE WE EVEN
CONSIDER THE COST OF ACQUIRING
AND UPGRADING THE
INFRASTRUCTURE ITSELF WHICH
COULD RANGE FROM TWO HUNDRED
EIGHTY ONE MILLION TO OVER A
BILLION DOLLARS DEPENDING ON
LEGAL AND OPERATIONAL
CHALLENGES OUR AND OUR
RESIDENTS ARE FINANCIALLY READY
TO TAKE ON THIS BURDEN.
>> YEAH OK.
GIVEN THE UNCERTAINTY
CREATED BY RECENT EXECUTIVE
ORDERS AND THE BROADER ECONOMIC
CLIMATE, I DON'T BELIEVE THIS
IS THE RIGHT TIME TO TAKE SUCH
A GAMBLE.
THE DECISION AT HAND IS IS
ABOUT WHERE BEST TO USE OUR
MONEY.
SHOULD WE PUT TOWARD A RAINY
DAY FUND TO PREPARE FOR FUTURE
CHALLENGES AND SOME OF THE
CHALLENGES THAT MY PEERS HAVE
SPOKEN ABOUT OR SHOULD WE
COMMIT TO A LONG, COSTLY AND
UNCERTAIN LEGAL FIGHT INSTEAD
OF DIVERTING RESOURCES TO
LITIGATION WE SHOULD FOCUS ON
STRENGTHENING THE SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY UTILITY THAT VOTERS JUST
APPROVED.
THIS IS A VIABLE COMMUNITY
DRIVEN PATH FORWARD ONE THAT
MOVES US TOWARD GREATER ENERGY
AND INDEPENDENCE WITHOUT
PROLONGED LEGAL BATTLES OR
FINANCIAL STRAIN.
>> OH I'M SORRY I GO OVER BY MY
CLOCK OK, YOU COULD FINISH.
>> I HAVE I HAVE PROBABLY TWO
MORE WE HAVE TO MAKE HARD
CHOICES WHILE I WANT A CLEANER
MORE RELIABLE RELIABLE ENERGY
FUTURE I CANNOT IN GOOD
CONSCIENCE SUPPORT THIS PHASE
TWO STUDY OF FINANCIAL RISKS
ARE TOO GREAT AND WE'VE GOT A
LOT OF PRESSING PRIORITIES TOO
MANY OF THEM AND THIS IS WHY I
WILL NOT BE SUPPORTING THIS
TONIGHT.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
MAIN MOTION
ROLL CALL THOUGH
PLEASE STARTING WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER MALIK COUNCIL MEMBER
MALIK YES.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER GRAZI EDWYN NO.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER AYA YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN NO
COUNCIL BRIGGS'S ABSENT COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL NO COUNCIL
MEMBER DESH NO COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON NO COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON YES DOES NOT CARRY THE
MOTION FAILS DC TO RESOLUTION
TO AUTHORIZE CITY STAFF TO
PERFORM THE PRELIMINARY WORK
FOR MEMBERS THE PUBLIC
INFORMATION A TIE VOTE THE FACT
THAT IS A TIE IS IMMATERIAL THE
THE IN ORDER TO PASS RESOLUTION
REQUIRES SIX VOTES DC TWO
RESOLUTION TO AUTHORIZE CITY
STAFF TO PERFORM THE
PRELIMINARY WORK NECESSARY TO
PUT THE QUESTION OF THE
ACQUISITION OF ELECTRIC
COMPANY'S ASSETS TO A VOTE
OF THE PEOPLE AND TO PREPARE
FOR LITIGATION SHOULD THE
VOTERS AUTHORIZE SUCH
ACQUISITION MOVE BY COUNCILMAN
MCCONNELL SECOND BY COUNCILMAN
DISH DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC TO
AS FOLKS WHO ARE HAVE BEEN
FOLLOWING THE THE MATTER.
NO, THIS RESOLUTION IS DESIGNED
WAS DESIGNED IN THE EVENT THAT
DC ONE PASSED TO CHART TO
AUTHORIZE THE CITY STAFF TO DO
SOME WORK THAT WOULD BE
NECESSARY IN PARALLEL TO BRING
THE MATTER BEFORE BEFORE THE
PEOPLE IN A SWIFT FASHION AFTER
WE RECEIVED THE PHASE TWO VOTE,
THE PHASE AFTER YOU SEE THE
PHASE TWO STUDY IN LIGHT OF THE
FACT THAT THE PHASE TWO STUDY
HAS FAILED, I DON'T SUSPECT THE
RESOLUTION WILL PASS.
I'LL BE VOTING NO IN LIGHT
OF THE FACT THAT THE RESOLUTION
HAS FAILED FURTHER DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR OR OPPOSED THE
RESOLUTION FAILS DC THREE
RESOLUTION TO ORDER ELECTIONEER
TO DETERMINE BALLOT QUESTION
FOR THE CHARTER AMENDMENT TO
AUTHORIZE THE SALE OF 319 S
FIFTH AVENUE TO THE ANN ARBOR
DISTRICT LIBRARY MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THREE THE
THE LIBRARY LOT IS THE ROOF
OF AN UNDERGROUND PARKING
STRUCTURE THE LIBRARY THAT
PARKING STRUCTURE WITH ITS
STAIRWELL ROADS, RAMPS AND
ELEVATORS WAS NOT DESIGNED TO
BE A PARK.
IT WAS DESIGNED AT THE
ADDITIONAL COST OF MANY
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS TO SUPPORT
A 20 STOREY BUILDING.
THE TEXT OF THE CHARTER DOES
NOT ALTER THESE IMMUTABLE
FACTS.
>> FORTUNATELY, HOWEVER, THE
TEXT OF THE CHARTER ITSELF IS
NOT AN IMMUTABLE FACT.
IT CAN BE CHANGED BY THE WILL
OF THE VOTERS WHEN PRESENTED
WITH A POSITIVE PRACTICAL
COMMUNITY BENEFITING VISION
OVER THE NEXT FEW WEEKS AND
BEFORE THE VOTE I EXPECT WILL
PUT SOME MORE FLESH OF HOW THE
LIBRARY WOULD USE THE LAND
OF THESE CHARTER AMENDMENTS
WERE APPROVED BUT THE DIRECTION
IS CLEAR AND AS MUCH LEGALLY
POSSIBLE IT IS INCLUDED IN THE
BALLOT LANGUAGE ITSELF A MUCH
NEEDED NEW EXPANDED LIBRARY AND
ATTRACTIVE PUBLIC OPEN SPACE
MIXED USE HOUSING SMALL AND
LOCAL BUSINESS INCUBATION ALL
WITHOUT ANY NEW TAXES NOT FOR
THE CITY, NOT THE LIBRARY.
>> THIS IS A REAL PRACTICAL
POSITIVE VISION TO SECURE THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY AND TO
TRANSFORM THE LOT INTO AN
ATTRACTIVE ACTIVE PUBLIC SPACE
THAT BENEFITS EVERYONE AGAIN
ALL WITHOUT NEW TAXES.
>> I EXPECT THAT THE VOTERS
WILL RECOGNIZE THIS FOR WHAT IT
IS A TREMENDOUS OPPORTUNITY AND
THAT THEY WILL SAY YES FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MCCONNELL
,
THANK YOU FOR THE HISTORY
LESSON THERE AND I WANTED TO
ADD THAT THIS IS IT'S
FRUSTRATING TO HEAR FEEDBACK
THAT THE CITY DID NOT TRY TO
ADVANCE THIS.
THE CITY CREATED A COMMISSION
TO STUDY IT TO ENGAGE NEIGHBORS
OF THE SITE AROUND IT, TO HEAR
PROPOSALS ON IT AND TO ADVISE
COUNCIL AND ON THE OUTCOME
OF IT.
>> AND I SERVED ON THAT BEFORE
I WAS ON COUNCIL AND THE FACT
THAT THERE ARE THE FACTS THAT
MAYOR TAYLOR JUST MENTIONED AND
THE VISION THAT THIS IS SOMEHOW
GOING TO MAGICALLY BECOME A
PARK DON'T ALIGN AND I WANTED
TO ADD THE PROPOSED PLAN WHICH
INCLUDED AN INCREDIBLE AMOUNT
OF PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND
CITY TIME SOLICITING THAT
FEEDBACK SHOWED OVERWHELMINGLY
THAT THE VAST MAJORITY OF US
CITIZENS WANT THE CITY TO FOCUS
ON THE PARKS.
WE HAVE I GET COMPLAINTS ABOUT
VIRGINIA PARK IN WARD FIVE
WATERWORKS PARK IN WARD FIVE.
>> THESE ARE PARKS THAT DESERVE
OUR ATTENTION.
>> THEY'RE IN OUR NEIGHBORHOODS
WHERE KIDS PLAY.
>> WE HAVE A PUBLIC PLAZA
DOWNTOWN IT'S CALLED LIBERTY
PLAZA.
IF YOU HAVEN'T BEEN THE THE
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
WHO'S OFTEN MALIGNED WRONGLY IN
THESE CONVERSATIONS IS ACTUALLY
SUPPORTING ITS ACTIVATION RIGHT
NOW THROUGH A PUBLIC ART
INSTALLATION.
SO IF YOU HAVEN'T BEEN GO CHECK
IT OUT.
>> IT'S REALLY COOL.
WE WALKED PAST THERE FRIDAY
NIGHT UP MINISTRIES WAS USING
THE SPACE AS WELL.
IT IS AN ACTIVATED SPACE THAT
IS VALUABLE TO OUR DOWNTOWN
ELIMINATING THE IDEA THAT THE
LIBRARY WHICH IS A PROVEN AN
AWARD WINNING PARTNER IN TERMS
OF DEVELOPMENT AND PROGRAMING
TO CONTINUE TO PURSUE WITH
CITIZENS HAVE SAID IN A THROUGH
THE PROS PLAN ENGAGEMENT THAT
THEY DO NOT WANT AND THROUGH
YEARS OF EFFORTS TO MAKE IT
HAPPEN HAS NOT ADVANCED IS
VERY, VERY SHORTSIGHTED.
>> I BELIEVE THAT THE HOUSING
DENTAL COWORKING SPACE, PUBLIC
MEETING SPACE, A PLAZA THAT
THEY ARE PROMISING WILL BE
ACTIVATED AND THE ABILITY TO
CAPTURE THOSE TAXES BACK INTO
OUR BUDGET AS WE JUST TALKED
ABOUT THE IDEA OF WHAT COULD WE
DO TO ADVANCE ALL OF OUR
INITIATIVES THAT MATTER TO THE
MOST VULNERABLE OF OUR CITIZENS
IS SOMETHING THAT I THINK IS
IMPORTANT FOR US TO PURSUE.
SO I'M FULLY SUPPORTIVE
OF THIS.
I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO IT
COMING FORWARD AND I THINK THE
CITY AND THE LIBRARY ARE GOING
TO DO A GREAT JOB AS A DYNAMIC
AND COLLABORATIVE PARTNERSHIP
THAT I DO BELIEVE THE COMMUNITY
EXPECTS US TO DO.
WE'VE JUST FOUND A GOOD PARTNER
CALCIUM ROYO, THANK YOU
.
I HAVE LONG BEEN A PROPONENT
OF HOUSING ON THIS SITE SINCE
TWENTY EIGHTEEN I WOULD SAY
I'VE BEEN INVOLVED IN
DISCUSSIONS IN THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT ACTIVATING A SITE WITH
HOUSING AND BRINGING NEW
RESIDENTS TO AN AREA OF TOWN
THAT IS REALLY UNDERUTILIZED.
>> IT IS AN AREA IN OUR
DOWNTOWN THAT SAY FOR THE
LIBRARY IS IS A DEAD ZONE.
THERE ARE A FEW LOCAL
BUSINESSES THAT OFTEN ARE NOT
WELL SUPPORTED AND THEY COME
AND GO BECAUSE THERE JUST ISN'T
THE AMOUNT OF ACTIVATION IN THE
AREA TO SUPPORT THEM.
>> WE HAVE A HOUSING CRISIS.
>> WE NEED SOME SAY FORTY
THOUSAND NEW HOUSING UNITS IN
THE CITY AND THIS IS AN AREA
THAT CAN SUSTAIN THAT AND
LITERALLY BUILT TO SUSTAIN A
MID RISE BUILDING.
UM, THAT CAN HOUSE A LOT
OF PEOPLE I VIEW THIS AS A WIN
WIN WIN.
>> IT'S A WIN FOR HOUSING
ADVOCATES IN OUR COMMUNITY.
IT'S A WIN FOR THE LIBRARY AND
ITS PATRONS WHO DESPERATELY
NEED A NEW DOWNTOWN LIBRARY
BRANCH AND IT'S A WIN FOR THOSE
WHO WANT PUBLIC OPEN SPACE
BECAUSE THAT WILL BE PART
OF THIS.
IT WILL BE PROGRAMED IT WILL BE
SUCCESSFUL AS OPPOSED TO WHAT
HAS BEEN PROPOSED SO FAR.
SO I'M REALLY EXCITED ABOUT
THIS PLAN.
I'M THRILLED AND DELIGHTED TO
VOTE FOR IT TONIGHT AND I HOPE
TO SEE IT MOVE FORWARD WITH
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON, I
AM REALLY EXCITED ABOUT THIS
TURNING THE LIBRARY DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY INTO A REAL COMMUNITY
HUB WHERE PEOPLE CAN ACTUALLY
LIVE, LEARN AND CONNECT IS A
REAL INCREDIBLE OPPORTUNITY AS
SOMEONE WHO HAS LIVED IN ANN
ARBOR MY ENTIRE LIFE, I CAN I
CAN'T REMEMBER A TIME WHEN I
DIDN'T HAVE A LIBRARY CARD.
>> THE LIBRARY HAS ALWAYS BEEN
A PLACE WHERE I EXPLORE NEW
IDEAS FOUND INSPIRATION AND
FELT PART OF THE COMMUNITY
WATCHING THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT
LIBRARY EVOLVE OVER THE YEARS
HAS BEEN AMAZING BECAUSE IT
REFLECTS WHO WE ARE AS A CITY
FORWARD THINKING, ACCESSIBLE
AND ALWAYS WORKING TO SERVE
PEOPLE IN NEW WAYS.
>> THIS RESOLUTION IS A CHANCE
TO TAKE THAT EVEN FURTHER BY
ADDING MIXED INCOME HOUSING TO
THE LIBRARY, WE'RE EXPANDING
ITS ROLE AS A TRUE CIVIC
COMMONS.
THAT'S WHAT MAKES THIS PROJECT
SO EXCITING.
WE'RE RETHINKING HOW WE USE
PUBLIC SPACE TO TRULY SERVE THE
COMMUNITY.
I'M IMPRESSED BY THE
COLLABORATION BEHIND THIS
VISION WHEN THE CITY, THE
LIBRARY, AFFORDABLE HOUSING
DEVELOPERS AND THE COMMUNITY
COME TOGETHER WE CAN CREATE
SOMETHING THAT'S MORE THAN JUST
THE SUM OF ITS PARTS.
>> I'M PROUD TO BE A COAST TO
CO-SPONSOR THIS RESOLUTION
BECAUSE IF IT PASSES WE GET TO
TAKE A FINAL STEP TOWARDS
SOMETHING TRANSFORMATIVE.
>> I CAN'T WAIT TO SEE WHERE
THIS PARTNERSHIP GOES AND I'LL
BE WORKING TO MAKE SURE THAT
WHATEVER COMES NEXT TRULY
REFLECT THE CREATIVITY,
ACCESSIBILITY AND INCLUSIVE
EXCLUSIVITY THAT MAKES THE ANN
ARBOR SPECIAL.
>> THANK COULSON BRITISH.
I WANT TO THANK MY COLLEAGUES
FOR BEING SO ELOQUENT AND I
WANT TO ECHO YES WE NEED 40000
NEW HOUSING UNITS AND WE ARE
JUST BEGINNING TO LEARN THE
SCALE OF INVESTMENT IN THINGS
LIKE SANITARY SEWERS AND OTHER
INFRASTRUCTURE AND THE UPGRADES
TO THE TRANSPORTATION PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK THAT MAY
BE REQUIRED TO ACHIEVE THAT
VISION.
SO WE REALLY CAN NO LONGER
AFFORD THE OPPORTUNITY COSTS
OF LEAVING A PLACE DOWNTOWN
THAT IS WAITING WAS CREATED ,
WAS BUILT, WAS OUTFITTED FOR
HOUSING.
>> WE CAN NO LONGER LEAVE THAT
EMPTY.
SO I'M VERY EXCITED TO SEE THIS
AS WELL.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION ARE TWO
QUICK POINTS.
FIRST I'LL NOTE THAT THE THE
YOUR PACKAGE INCLUDES A
PROPOSED AMENDMENT WHICH I
REALIZED THAT I FAILED TO ASK
FOR THE THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT
WHICH IF YOU CLICK ON THE LINK
TO DC THREE WOULD WOULD ADD A
PARCEL WITHIN THE AREA TO THE
PARCELS THAT WOULD BE
POTENTIALLY SOLD OR AUTHORIZED
TO BE SOLD TRANSFERRED TO THE
DISTRICT LIBRARY FOLKS THINK
ABOUT THE LIBRARY LOT AS A
UNIFIED WHOLE.
IT IS IN FACT A SERIES
OF PARCELS THE PARCEL
IDENTIFIED AT THREE NINETEEN S
FIFTH AVENUE BROADLY SPEAKING
IS THE ROOF OF THE PARKING DECK
AND IN MANY OF THE RAMPS THE
PARCEL AT THREE TWENTY SIX
SOUTH DIVISION WITH YOU KNOW
CORRECT TO BE CORRECTED BY
COUNCIL BROADLY IS THE STREET
THAT RUNS LIBRARY LANE THAT IS
THE THE STREET THAT RUNS FROM
SAY THE BACK OF THE LIBRARY TO
DIVISION AND THEN THE EXIT RAMP
OF THE PARKING DECK.
THOSE TWO ITEMS ARE INCLUDED IN
THE IN THAT PARCEL AND IT IS
CONTEMPLATED THAT A FULSOM
DEVELOPMENT OF THREE NINETEEN S
FIFTH MIGHT REQUIRE EASEMENTS
AND THE LIKE OF THAT PARCEL AND
SO IT WOULD BE USEFUL TO
INCLUDE THAT PARCEL IN THE IN
THE CHARTER AMENDMENT SO THAT
WE'D BE AUTHORIZED TO TO EFFECT
THOSE DISTRIBUTIONS.
SO I MAY HAVE A MOTION TO
EFFECT THE SUBSTITUTE WHICH IS
IN EFFECT A SUBSTITUTE
RESOLUTION WHICH IS INCLUDED IN
THE IN THE PACKET BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA SAYING MY
COUNCILOR IS THAT FRIENDLY
OF THE BODY.
>> IT'S FRIENDLY FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE MAIN MOTION
AS AMENDED COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKMANN THANK YOU.
>> I DID WANT TO POINT FOLKS TO
THE MEMO THAT WAS ATTACHED TO
OUR AGENDA LATE IN THE DAY FROM
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR THAT
TALKS ABOUT THE KIND
OF NEGOTIATION DISCUSSIONS SO
FAR WITH REGARD TO THIS SPOT.
I THINK IT LAYS OUT SOME OF THE
THINGS THAT HAVE BEEN DISCUSSED
IN A WAY THAT WOULD BE HELPFUL
TO THE PUBLIC, TO THE PUBLIC.
OBVIOUSLY I CO-SPONSORED THIS
SO YOU KNOW, I IN STRONG
SUPPORT OF IT FOR YEARS.
WE KNOW THIS HAS REMAINED
UNDERUTILIZED DESPITE
DISCUSSIONS TASK FORCES AND
EFFORTS TO MOVE FORWARD WITH
THE VISION FOR A PUBLIC SPACE.
THERE WAS NEVER DEDICATED
FUNDING FROM THE CITY TO
IMPLEMENT THAT VISION AND NO
VIABLE PATH IS REALLY EMERGED
TO MAKE IT A REALITY.
AND I THINK NOW WE HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO TAKE A REALLY
MEANINGFUL STEP FORWARD WITH AN
EXCELLENT WELL REGARDED, WELL
RESPECTED AS WE HEARD FROM MANY
COMMENTERS TONIGHT, A PUBLIC
INSTITUTION.
TO ME THE CHOICE IS PRETTY
EASY.
WE CAN EITHER LEAVE THIS SITE
IN LIMBO, INDEFINITE WHICH IS
ESSENTIALLY WHAT THE CHARTER
LANGUAGE DID AND I APPRECIATE
SOME AT LEAST ONE PUBLIC
COMMENT OR BROUGHT UP TONIGHT
HOW BIZARRE IT IS TO SPECIFY IN
A CITY CHARTER WHAT WILL HAPPEN
WITH A SPECIFIC PLOT OF LAND IN
PERPETUITY WITHOUT BEING
DESIGNATED AS A PARKLAND EVEN
THAT IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE
ANYWAY.
I DIGRESS.
YOU KNOW WHAT THIS DOES IS GIVE
VOTERS A CHANCE TO MOVE FORWARD
WITH A PLAN THAT STRENGTHENS
OUR DOWNTOWN, ENHANCES PUBLIC
SPACE AND SERVES OUR COMMUNITY.
>> AND SO WHILE WE RECOGNIZE
THAT VOTERS SUPPORTED THE
CHARTER AMENDMENT IN THE TWENTY
EIGHTEEN LIKE I SAID THE VISION
HASN'T MATERIALIZED.
SO THIS IS GIVING ANN URBAN
RESIDENTS A CHANCE TO
RECONSIDER HOW TO BEST USE THIS
PUBLIC SPACE IN A WAY THAT
SERVES THE COMMUNITY TODAY AND
INTO THE FUTURE.
>> SO THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION
ALL IN FAVOR, ALL OPPOSED IT
APPROVED THE TEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT THUS SATISFYING
THE SEVEN VOTE REQUIREMENT DC
FOR RESOLUTION TO ORDER
ELECTION AND TO DETERMINE
BALLOT QUESTION FOR CHARTER
AMENDMENT TO REPEAL SECTION ONE
POINT FOUR OF THE CITY CHARTER
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER SECOND
BY COUNCILOR CORNELL DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC FOR IF I CAN THIS
IS A ANSWERING A QUESTION TO
ALL THAT SUM OR RAISING AN
ISSUE THAT SOME MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC HAVE RAISED WITH RESPECT
TO THESE TWO BALLOT BALLOT
QUESTIONS.
WHY IS THERE NOT MORE SPECIFIC
LANGUAGE IN THE AMENDMENT IN
THE IN THE PROPOSED LANGUAGE
WITH RESPECT TO THE EXACT
NATURE OF THE THE PROPOSED
USAGES?
WHY IS IT NOT THE AMOUNT
OF HOUSING, THE NATURE OF THE
HOUSING, THE NATURE OF THE
RETAIL SIZE, THE OPEN SPACE?
WHY ARE THESE THINGS NOT
INCLUDED IN THESE THESE BALLOT?
WHY IS NOT THESE NOT INCLUDE IN
THE BALLOT LANGUAGE BROADLY
SPEAKING TO WE DO NOT PROVIDE
GREATER SPECIFICS IN THE BALLOT
LANGUAGE BECAUSE THOSE
SPECIFICS, YOU KNOW, I BELIEVE
COULD BE VIEWED IN A COURT IN
COURT AS ADVOCACY AND INDEED
COULD BE RAISED BY OPPONENTS
OF THE BALLOT MEASURES AS
ADVOCACY TO TALK ABOUT MIXED
USE, MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT,
MIXED INCOME HOUSING AND SO
FORTH COULD BE SEEN AS ADVOCACY
AND THE BALLOT LANGUAGE ITSELF
CANNOT BE ADVOCACY.
OVER THE NEXT FEW WEEKS I WOULD
EXPECT US TO BRING FORWARD A
RESOLUTION THAT WILL ELABORATE
UPON THE LIBRARY'S VISION AND
THE CITY'S VISION AND I WOULD
EXPECT THAT INFORMATION TO BE
DISTRIBUTED TO THE PUBLIC
BROADLY SO THAT FOLKS WOULD
KNOW WHAT THEY'RE GETTING INTO
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF DC FOR ON
FAVOR AS OPPOSED, HUH?
IT HAS BEEN I HAVE BEEN TOLD
THAT WE NEED ROLL CALL VOTES
WITH RESPECT TO THESE TWO THESE
TWO ITEMS SO LET'S DO A ROLL
CALL VOTE.
>> WE HAVE JUST CALLED FOR A
VOTE WITH RESPECT TO D.C. FOR
SO LET'S TAKE THE ROLL CALL ON
DC FOUR AND THEN WE'LL CYCLE ON
BACK TO ROLL CALL VOTE ON D.C.
FOR START WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
MALIK COUNTERMOVEMENT MALIK.
YES, CAST MEMBER DENHA YES
COUNCIL MEMBER BIGAZZI EDWYN
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
COUNCILMAN BRIERRE YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRACKMAN YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S ABSENT
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNEAU YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON YES.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON YES.
>> IT CARRIES CONSIDERING
PROCEDURALLY HOW TO BRING BACK
DC THREE SO AS I SAY
RECONSIDERATION
YES.
>> SO I MADE A MOTION PLEASE TO
RECONSIDER DC THREE MOVE BY
COUNCILOR ELSHAMY COUNCIL
MEMBER IA DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
OPPOSED WITH NINE COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT OR VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THE THE
RECONSIDERATION PASSES NOW WE
REMOVE DC THREE YES I'M GETTING
A YES DC THREE RESOLUTION TO
ORDER ELECTION ON AND TO
DETERMINE BALLOT QUESTION FOR
CHARTER AMENDMENT TO AUTHORIZE
THE SALE OF THREE ONE NINE S
FIFTH AVENUE TO THE ANN ARBOR
DISTRICT LIBRARY MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR DENHA SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE.
>> A DC THREE POINT OF INQUIRY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA AS WE ARE
RECONSIDERING THIS IS ALREADY
DEEMED AMENDED CORRECT.
>> WE DON'T NEED TO RECOMMEND
WE SHOULD PROBABLY RECOMMEND OH
I BELIEVE THAT WAS DONE IN THE
PROPER DURING THE DISCUSSION SO
I THINK THE NON ROLL-CALL VOTE
WAS OF THE MOTION AS AMENDED
AND SO THIS AND SO THE THE
AMENDED MOTION HAS BEEN HAS
BEEN BROUGHT UP THE MOTION
THAT'S COMING BACK BY APPROVAL
OF RECONSIDERATION.
OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF DC THREE
AS AMENDED ROLL-CALL VOTE.
>> PLEASE START WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER MALIK COUNCIL MEMBER
MALIK YES COUNCIL MEMBER A
DENHA YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER GROZIER ONE YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S ABSENT
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON YES.
APPROVED MOTION CARRIES THANK
YOU.
>> OH DO WE HAVE THE PLEASURE
OF CLOSED SESSION TODAY.
>> YES WE DO MAYOR WE ARE
REQUESTING TO GO INTO CLOSED
SESSION UNDER SECTION EIGHT H
TO DISCUSS A WRITTEN ATTORNEY
CLIENT COMMUNICATION DATED
MARCH TWO TWENTY TWENTY FIVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO GO
INTO CLOSED SESSION ON THAT
BASIS MOVE BY COUNCILOR
MCCONNELLS.
THANK MY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION GROUP CALL ROLL CALL
VOTE.
>> WE START WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
MALLICK COUNCIL MEMBER MALIK
YES.
HOUSE MEMBER DENHA YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER GOSIA YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER IHR YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER YES COUNCIL
MEMBER BURGS ABSENT SORRY
COUNCIL ARE NOW YES COUNCIL YES
.
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON YES
MOTION CARRIES HERE IN CLOSED
SESSION
OPEN SESSION WE HAVE
BEFORE THE CLERK'S REPORT
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS MAY HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE CLERK'S
SUPPORT MOVE BY COUNCILOR DISH
SECONDED BY CARL QUENELLE
DISCUSSION OF THE CLERK'S
SUPPORT NO THAT'S NOT THAT I
KNOW THAT I HAVE IN MY BRAIN IS
THE PUBLIC NOW IN HERE
I'M JUST
TALKING MY TALK MYSELF OUT LOUD
.
OH THERE.
YES JIWON AH THERE IT IS FOR
DISCUSSION IN THE CLERK'S
REPORT ON FAVOR OR OPPOSE THE
CLERK SUPPORT IS APPROVED.
>> OUR COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY ALTHOUGH
PERHAPS WE CAN ALL REVEL IN THE
EXISTENCE OF JIWON VERY GOOD
WORKS FROM OUR OUTSIDE COUNSEL
AND OUR OFFICE.
>> YES.
SO FAR AS MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC
IF I CAN STEP UPON SLIGHTLY THE
THE COMMUNICATIONS OF THE CITY
ATTORNEY AND NOTE THAT THERE IS
A COMMUNICATION FROM THE CITY
ATTORNEY REGARDING THE CITY'S
PARTICIPATION IN MICHIGAN
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
PROCEEDINGS SINCE TWENTY TWENTY
TWO THESE ARE INSTANCES IN
WHICH THE CITY HAS HAS APPEARED
BEFORE THE THE PUBLIC SERVICES
COMMISSION AND ADVOCATED FOR
ANN ARBOR RESIDENTS AND AND OUR
CUSTOMERS OF DTN ANN ARBOR AND
CUSTOMERS OF DC AND BY
EXTENSION THROUGHOUT THROUGHOUT
MICHIGAN WHERE WE HAVE IN OUR
VIEW ACCOMPLISHED A LOT OF GOOD
THINGS FOR FOLKS AND I THINK
IT'S WORTHY OF PEOPLE TO TAKE A
LOOK AND SEE WHAT'S GOING ON UP
IN LANSING.
AND FOR MY PART I WANT TO
EXTEND THANKS AND GRATITUDE TO
THE THE CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE
FOR DOING SO AND I OWE A SOURCE
OF ALL GOOD THINGS
WE NOW COME
TO PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW
HAVING EXCEEDED THANK YOU FOR
HAVING EXCEEDED FORTY FIVE
MINUTES WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOW PER PRIOR
PUBLIC COMMENT IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND
THE COMMUNITY MATTERS MUNICIPAL
INTEREST TO SPEAK AT PUBLIC
COMMENT ONE NEEDS TO HAVE
SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY CLERK
SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES BOTH
HERE AND ONLINE WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING AND
WHEN YOUR TIME'S EXPIRED WHEN
YOUR TIME'S EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR.
OUR SPEAKER OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
ZACH PRINCE.
ZACH PRINCE
, OUR NEXT SPEAKER
IS ALAN HABOUR
.
WELL THANK YOU COUNSEL.
YEAH, THE LAST ONE STANDING ON
THE QUESTION OF THE COMMONS AT
LEAST FOR THE MOMENT I SENT YOU
RACHEL LETTER.
DID ANYONE READ IT AT HAND?
ANYONE READ ANY OF WHAT I'VE
READ WHEN I SAW THESE
RESOLUTIONS MY FIRST FEELING
WAS BETRAYAL THAT I BEGAN
WORKING ON THIS QUESTION OF THE
COMMONS IN 2009.
MY EDUCATION BEGAN IN 2008.
I SHOULD EXPECT NO MORE.
THIS IS ABOUT LOCAL POLITICS
AND MONEY.
I'VE CALLED THIS A TOTALITARIAN
DEMOCRACY.
YOU GOT IT ALL WRAPPED UP THE
ABSENT ERICA BRIGGS PERSUADED
ME ANOTHER COMMONERS IN THE
COUNCIL THE COMMONS THAT WE
SHOULD ACCEPT THE CLOSURE
OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COMMONS
IN THE ACCEPTANCE OF A PROPOSAL
TO SEEK CONSULTANTS AS TO HOW
BEST TO DEVELOP THE CENTER
OF THE CITY AND WE AGREED TO
THAT AND SHE AGREED THAT THE
PRESUMABLY HAD SUPPORT FROM THE
COUNCIL TO SUPPORT A JOINT
PROJECT SEEKING CONSULTANTS
WITH THE LIBRARY GREEN
CONCERNING CONTRIBUTING SEVENTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS AND THE
COUNCIL CONTRIBUTING FORTY
THOUSAND.
ACTUALLY PEOPLE SAID THERE IS
NO MONEY IN THIS DEAL BUT SINCE
DECEMBER 2019 THERE HAS BEEN
GROWING FROM IT IS NOW MAYBE A
HALF OR THREE QUARTERS OF A
MILLION DOLLARS OF THE MONEY
COLLECTED FROM THE REVENUE ON
THE SERVICE PARKING WHICH IS
ALLOCATED AND RESTRICTED TO THE
DEVELOPMENT OF THE CENTER
OF THE CITY COMMONS.
BUT THE CITY COUNCIL NEVER
RECOGNIZED THE NEW ONE.
WHAT THE OLD ONE SAID THAT NOW
ALL OF A SUDDEN HARAKAH IS GONE
AND THERE'S A WHOLE NEW
PROPOSAL FROM THIS IDEA THAT
THE LIBRARY SHOULD DEVELOP A
BIG HOUSING PROJECT BIGGER THAN
THE HOUSING PROJECT THAT ARE
PROPOSED IN NOVEMBER TAKING
OVER ABOUT THE LIBRARY LAND LOT
AND OWN PROPERTY.
I SUSPECT THE REASON FOR THIS
INCREASE IN SIZE IS BECAUSE THE
EQUITY THEY GOT FOR THE MARKET
RATE HOUSING AND ONLY BUILDING
ON THE LIBRARY DOES NOT GIVE
THEM SUFFICIENT UNITS.
>> OH MY WELL I'LL WRITE HER
AGAIN.
I DOUBT THAT YOU READ IT.
THERE HAS BEEN A VERY
UNFRIENDLY UNPRODUCTIVE
RELATIONSHIP.
>> THANK I DON'T WANT ANY
THANKS.
>> I WISH THAT YOU WOULD TREAT
THE PUBLIC MORE DIFFERENTLY.
THANK YOU.
I'D ACTUALLY ACCEPT THE VOTE
THAT THE PEOPLE TOOK RATHER
THAN NEGATING IT.
>> THANK YOU.
YOU'RE VERY WELCOME.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
DEBORAH SALERNO.
DEBORAH , IF YOU'RE ONLINE CAN
YOU PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND
?
I DO NOT SEE
OUR NEXT SPEAKER
IS MARY JANE WARDEN MARY JANE
WARDEN
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RITA
MITCHELL
, PRESS STAR SIX TO
UNMIL.
HI, THIS IS RUDIMENTAL CALLING
.
I'M THE PRESIDENT OF THE
LIBERIAN CANCER.
>> WE'RE 523, OUR VOLUNTEER
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION
DEDICATED TO THE INSTALLATION
OF THE CITY CENTER OF THE CITY
AS A WELCOMING GREEN PUBLIC
OUTDOOR OPEN SPACE FOR A LITTLE
BIT OF HISTORY YOU
KNOW THAT IN
NOVEMBER 2013 FOLLOWING US
CITIZEN BALLOT INITIATIVE
TWENTY SIX THOUSAND FOUR
HUNDRED FIFTY TWO VOTERS PASSED
PROPOSAL A THAT WAS WITH 53 PER
CENT OF THE VOTE.
CONTRARY TO OFTEN REPEATED
STATEMENTS, THE THIRTY THREE
THOUSAND ONE HUNDRED THIRTY
MARGIN OF VOTES WAS SIGNIFICANT
IN MANY CASES COUNCIL MEMBERS
WHO WERE VOTED IN IN A
CONTESTED PRIMARY RECEIVED
FEWER VOTES IN THE DIFFERENTIAL
SO THE CITY DID SUPPORT ACTION
WITH THE COUNCIL.
THE COMMENTS IN THE CENTER
OF THE CITY TASK FORCE BOTH
GROUPS WORKED TO DEVELOP IDEAS
AND TO WORK FOR THE COMMUNITY
TO ESTABLISH THE CIRCUMSTANCE
THAT WOULD BE SOMETHING THAT
WOULD BE ENJOYED BY RESIDENTS
AND VISITORS AT THE CONCLUSION
OF MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
OF THE COMMONS LIBRARY GREEN
CONSERVANCY PROPOSED MOVING
FORWARD WITH A REQUEST FOR
PROPOSAL FOR DESIGN AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CENTER
FOR THAT RFP WAS DEFERRED AND
NEVER MATERIALIZED.
WE OFFERED A DRAFT MEMORANDUM
OF UNDERSTANDING SPECIFYING
MUTUAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND
THAT OF OUR VIEW.
WE OFFERED TO TRANSFER SEVENTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS DEDICATED
ARIZPE A FEE TO BE COMBINED
WITH 40000 DOLLARS FROM THE
CITY.
THAT AGREEMENT IS ROUTINE
PRACTICE AND THE CITY DOES IT
OFTEN WITH EXTERNAL GROUPS WE
RECEIVE NO RESPONSE FROM THE
ACLU THAT KIND OF AGREEMENT IS
REQUIRED IN SUPPORT OF OF
FUNDRAISING AND I WOULD SAY
THAT THE CITY INTERFERED WITH
THE FUNDRAISING EFFECTIVENESS
OF THE LIBRARY GREEN
CONSERVANCY.
SO I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT
REGARDLESS WE HAVE ALWAYS
WANTED TO WORK WITH THE LIBRARY
AND WE'RE HAPPY TO SEE THAT THE
LIBRARY IS CONSIDERING SOME
OPEN SPACE.
BUT I HAVE CONCERNS ABOUT IT.
THE VERTICAL CONSTRUCTION
THAT'S PROPOSED IN THE
RESTAURANT INFORMATION FROM MR.
HONI INDICATES THAT THERE'S
MAXIMIZING SITE SPACE BOTH
SPACES THAT THE CURRENT LIBRARY
AND THE LEVEL OF GREEN PARKING
AREA SURFACE PARK AREA OF THE
PARKING STRUCTURE THAT'S TO
ENSURE THE FIRST LEVEL OF THE
LIBRARY'S LANE SITE WILL
CONTAIN RETAIL AND OTHER
ELEMENTS OF PUBLIC SPACE THAT'S
REALLY DIFFERENT FROM PUBLIC
OPEN SPACE.
SO PLEASE BE CLEAR ABOUT WHAT
ROSTERING BATTLE WILL STIPULATE
THE ERROR RATE TRANSACTION A
PORTION OF HOUSING THAT WOULD
BE MARKETED TO ARTISTS.
THAT'S GREAT BUT LET'S REALLY
KNOW WHAT TIME AND LET'S FIND
OUT A LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT
WHAT IS BEING OFFERED FOR THE
PUBLIC OPEN SPACE ON THE SECOND
FLOOR OF THE LIBRARY THAT'S NOT
ACCESSIBLE.
>> SO WE ARE WELCOME WORKING
WITH THE CITY FURTHER AND WE
WILL BE LOOKING TO BE ENGAGED
IN THE PUBLIC PROCESS.
I THINK THAT WILL BE WELCOMING
FOR PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
STOLLBERG
MAYOR.
I DO NOT SEE HIM IN THE GALLERY
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM
GOODMAN
.
HI.
>> ADAM GOODMAN SPEAKING TO YOU
FROM THE FIFTH WARD.
SO I'M GOING TO START BY SAYING
THAT I STRONGLY AGREE THAT IT
WOULD HAVE BEEN DEEPLY
IRRESPONSIBLE TO SPEND ALMOST
TWO MILLION DOLLARS OUT OF THE
GENERAL FUND ON A PHASE TWO
MUNICIPAL IZATION STUDY RIGHT
NOW WHEN WE'RE FACING
SIGNIFICANT FISCAL UNCERTAINTY
WITH INSANE FEDERAL ACTIONS
THAT ARE HAPPENING.
>> AND SO I DO WANT TO THANK
THE COUNCIL MEMBERS WHO
RECOGNIZED AND MADE THAT CLEAR
TONIGHT SHARED A FEW EXAMPLES
OF WHY THIS IS A PROBLEM.
>> I'LL GET ANOTHER ONE.
>> THE CITY IS RELYING ON A
COUPLE BILLION DOLLARS FROM A
FEDERAL SAFE STREETS FOR ALL
GRANTS TO COMPLETE SOME FRANKLY
VERY LONG DELAYED ROAD SAFETY
PROJECTS AND NOW IT'S PRETTY
UNCERTAIN WHETHER WE'LL STILL
GET THAT MONEY.
>> AND BY THE WAY, WE HAVE
OFFICIALLY FAILED OUR TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE VISION ZERO CALL.
>> WE HAD MULTIPLE SERIOUS
INJURY CRASHES AND I THINK ONE
FATALITY IN JANUARY.
SO WE URGENTLY NEED TO DO THIS
WORK LOSING THAT IT'S LITERALLY
LIFE AND DEATH AND LOSING THAT
ONE GRANT COULD BLOW OVER TWO
MILLION DOLLAR HOLE IN OUR
BUDGET JUST IN THAT IN THAT ONE
INSTANCE.
>> I ALSO THINK IT'S REALLY
WORTH PAYING ATTENTION TO THE
NEED FOR AN ONGOING DEDICATED
THREE MILLION DOLLAR A YEAR
PLUS VILLAGE.
>> AS COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
POINTED OUT TO FUND FUTURE
LITIGATION AND STUDIES.
IF WE DO TRY TO PROCEED WITH
STYLIZATION THAT CAME AT A BIT
OF A SURPRISE TO ME WHEN TAYLOR
PRESENTED IT AT THE PUBLIC
FORUM LAST MONTH.
>> SO THEN IT SEEMS LIKE A
PROBLEM TO SPEND ALMOST TWO
BILLION DOLLARS ON A STUDY IF
WE HAVEN'T FIRST SECURED A
COMMITMENT FROM THE COMMUNITY
TO FOLLOW THROUGH SHOULD THAT
STUDY FAVORABLE?
>> HOWEVER, I AS I WROTE TO YOU
ALL A FEW WEEKS GO I ACTUALLY
THINK THERE'S STILL A POSSIBLE
PATH FORWARD.
I THINK WE JUST GOT THE ORDER
WE SHOULD HAVE A VOTE TO DO
THIS MILLAGE FIRST THEN WE
COULD PAY FOR PHASE TWO STUDY
OUT OF THAT MILLAGE RATHER THAN
OUT OF THE GENERAL FUND.
THAT WAY WE WOULD HAVE PROOF
THAT THE COMMUNITY IS
SUFFICIENTLY COMMITTED AND WE
WOULD HAVE SOME ASSURANCE THAT
IT WOULD NOT COME THE COST
OF OTHER CRITICAL CITY SERVICES
AND PROGRAMS I GET THAT THIS
MAY SEEM A BIT LIKE A CHICKEN
AND EGG PROBLEM.
FOLKS WANTED TO SEE THE RESULTS
OF THE STUDY BEFORE COMMITTING
TO MUNICIPAL IZATION YET HERE I
AM SAYING I DON'T WANT TO FUND
A STUDY UNTIL WE'VE SECURED
THAT COMMITMENT BUT SOLUTION IS
SIMPLE.
FIRST WE VOTE ON THE VILLAGE,
THEN WE DO THE PHASE TWO STUDY
AND THEN WE HAVE ANOTHER VOTE.
IF THE PHASE TWO STUDY DOES NOT
PRODUCE FAVORABLE RESULTS AT
THE COMMUNITY, IT DOES NOT WISH
TO CONTINUE THEN THE CITY JUST
STOPS COLLECTING THAT KNOWLEDGE
AND MAYBE THE VILLAGE COULD
EVEN BE WRITTEN SUCH THAT ONLY
RESIDUAL FUNDS CAN BE REFUNDED
TO THE TAXPAYERS AND ALSO I'LL
JUST SAY REAL QUICK ON DC THREE
OF DC FOUR I'M SUPER EXCITED
FOR THIS TO MOVE FORWARD.
>> YEAH, LET'S GO.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ERIC
EUPHONIC
.
HI I'M ERIC BOSTITCH CALLING IN
FROM THE THIRD WARD.
I'D LIKE TO BRIEFLY DISCUSS
ITEM FIVE AND THE WALLINGFORD
HARDING INTERSECTION.
>> IT'S ESSENTIAL TO BRING THIS
INTERSECTION UP TO MODERN
SAFETY STANDARDS BY MINIMIZING
THE DISTANCE PEDESTRIANS NEED
TO CROSS AND REDUCING THE
RADIUS TURNS TO SLOW DOWN
TRAFFIC.
WE CAN SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASE
SAFETY.
ANN ARBOR HAS ADOPTED THE
VISION ZERO POLICY TO IMPROVE
SAFETY THROUGH ENGINEERING AND
OTHER MEANS.
ADDITIONALLY, WE HAVE AN ALL
AGES ALL ABILITIES POLICY TO
MAKE OUR TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
SAFE FOR EVERYONE INCLUDING THE
SMALLEST AND THE SLOWEST AMONG
US THIS IS AN ISSUE
OF INCLUSION AND EQUITY.
THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY BELONGS
TO ALL OF US, NOT JUST THE
NEIGHBORS.
>> SOME OF THOSE NEIGHBORS ARE
OPPOSING THOSE THESE CHANGES
EVEN THOUGH RESTORING THE
INTERSECTION TO ITS CURRENT
FORM AFTER THE UTILITY WORK IS
DONE WOULD COST TAXPAYERS MORE
MONEY.
CHILDREN USE THIS INTERSECTION
TO GET TO AND FROM SCHOOL AND
IT'S MORALLY PROBLEMATIC TO
WAIT FOR PEOPLE TO BE INJURED
OR WORSE BEFORE MAKING THIS
INTERSECTION SAFER.
>> AS SOME HAVE BEEN ARGUING, I
URGE CITY COUNCIL TO RESIST
TURNING ENGINEERING ISSUES INTO
POLITICAL ISSUES TO RESIST
THROWING CITY STAFF UNDER THE
BUS AS DID HAPPEN THIS EVENING
AND TO ALWAYS PUT SAFETY,
INCLUSION AND EQUITY OVER
ESTHETIC PREFERENCES OF SOME.
I FEAR THAT A BAD PRECEDENT WAS
REESTABLISHED THIS EVENING THAT
WILL MAKE FUTURE EFFORTS
TOWARDS SAFETY, INCLUSION AND
EQUITY THAT MUCH MORE DIFFICULT
.
>> NOW ONTO ITEMS DC THREE IN
DC FOUR FOUR SIX YEARS SINCE
PROPOSAL EIGHT PASSED THE
LIBRARY LAW HAS REMAINED
ESSENTIALLY UNCHANGED.
THE PROPONENTS OF PROPOSAL
PROMISE LOTS OF PRIVATE FUNDING
TO CREATE AN AMAZING PARK BY A
BICENTENNIAL BICENTENNIAL YEAR
2024.
THEY ASSURED US THAT THOSE WHO
CLAIM PARK PROPONENTS WOULD
COME BACK AND DEMAND THAT THE
PARK BE FUNDED THROUGH TAX
DOLLARS WE'RE USING QUOTE
UNQUOTE SCARE TACTICS GET ONCE
PROPOSAL PASSED.
THEY SOON STARTED BLAMING THE
CITY FOR NOT CREATING A PARK
WITHOUT THEIR PROMISED FUNDING.
>> IT'S NOW TIME TO MOVE
FORWARD.
OUR LIBRARY SYSTEM WINS AWARDS
PROVIDES THE COMMUNITY WITH
AMAZING SERVICES AND IS
APPRECIATED BY SO MANY IN OUR
COMMUNITY THAT OUR CURRENT
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY IS INCREDIBLY
EXPENSIVE TO MAINTAIN, HAS
CHALLENGING STRUCTURAL ISSUES
AND EVEN MODEST IMPROVEMENTS
ARE PROHIBITIVELY EXPENSIVE.
THESE FACILITIES ARE INADEQUATE
TO MEET CURRENT COMMUNITY
NEEDS.
>> THE PEOPLE OF ANN ARBOR NEED
AND DESERVE A MODERN DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY AND THE FACT THAT IT
COULD BE FUNDED WITHOUT
ADDITIONAL TAXES BUT THROUGH
ADDED AND DESPERATELY NEEDED
HOUSING ON HIGHER FLOORS IS
TRULY WONDERFUL.
>> A MODERN DOWNTOWN LIBRARY IS
A CIVIC COMMONS FOR THE FUTURE
AS WE FACE CHALLENGES TO OUR
DEMOCRACY WITH DISINFORMATION
INFILTRATING TRADITIONAL ONLINE
AND SOCIAL MEDIA WITH PEOPLE IN
POWER REJECTING THE FINDINGS
OF SCIENCE AND WITH EFFORTS TO
ERASE THE HISTORY AND HEROISM
OF MARGINALIZED GROUPS.
>> THIS MODERN LIBRARY OUR
FUTURE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY WILL
SERVE AS A STRONGHOLD FOR AN
INFORMED AND EMPOWERED PUBLIC.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM
JUSZKIEWICZ
.
HI, THIS IS ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ IN
THE FOURTH WARD.
FIRST I'D LIKE TO JUST BRIEFLY
DISCUSS DC THREE AND FOUR.
I'M SO GLAD TO SEE THIS AND I
LOOK FORWARD TO VOTING YES ON
THESE BALLOT PROPOSALS
.
I THINK IT WAS A GREAT IDEA TO
TIE THEM TOGETHER.
THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY
IS ONE OF OUR MOST CHERISHED
LOCAL INSTITUTIONS AND I CAN'T
IMAGINE ANY PROJECT THEY WOULD
BUILD HERE WOULD NOT BE
WONDERFUL INCLUDING HOUSING A
LIBRARY, PUBLIC OUTDOOR SPACE
EVENT SPACES, BUSINESS
DEVELOPMENT SPACES.
IT'S GREAT AND ACROSS FROM THE
BUS STATION I'M THE KIND OF
WHO ON A VACATION TO DENMARK
THIS SUMMER DRAGGED MY FAMILY
TO VISIT D'ARC ONE THE NEW
LIBRARY IN OUR HOUSE.
IT HAD MANY OF THESE THINGS AND
IT'S SUCH A WONDERFUL SPACE.
LIBRARIES ARE SO IMPORTANT
ESPECIALLY IN THIS DAY AND AGE.
I CAN'T WAIT TO SEE OUR NEW
TALL WORLD CLASS LIBRARY AND
WHO KNOWS MAYBE I WILL EVEN BE
ABLE TO LIVE ABOVE IT.
THANK YOU FOR TAKING THE NEXT
STEP TO MAKE THIS A REALITY.
>> ADDITIONALLY, I WANT TO
BRING UP FIVE AND SOME OF THE
COMMENTS I HEARD TONIGHT WHEN
COUNCIL PASSED A RESOLUTION
DIRECTING STAFF TO INCLUDE
TRAFFIC CALMING ELEMENTS IN
THESE KINDS OF UTILITY AND
STREET RESURFACING PROJECTS.
IT MADE ME EXTREMELY HAPPY WHEN
THE WHOLE STREET IS RIPPED UP
TO REPLACE PIPES.
IT IS A GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO
CHANGE THE DESIGN TO PRIORITIZE
SAFETY AND IT CAN EVEN REDUCE
COSTS THROUGH ELIMINATING EXTRA
PAVEMENT WHICH IS EXACTLY THE
CASE WITH THE WALLINGFORD
HEARTING INTERSECTION A SIMILAR
INTERSECTION WAS RECENTLY
REDESIGNED IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD
AT GREENVIEW AND AVONDALE AND
THE RESULT REALLY COULD HARDLY
BE BETTER.
A WIDE SWEEPING CURB WAS
TIGHTENED UP, CROSSING
DISTANCES WERE SHORTENED AND
THE RESULT IS THAT PEOPLE
SLOWED DOWN.
MORE PEOPLE STOP AT THE STOP
SIGN.
THERE'S MORE GREEN SPACE AND
LESS PAVEMENT.
IT'S GREAT COUNCIL POLICY
DIRECTS A COLLABORATIVE
ENGAGEMENT MODEL ACCORDING TO
THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION
FOR PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
THIS MEANS THAT PUBLIC IS A
PARTNER IN DEVELOPING
ALTERNATIVES AND IDENTIFYING A
PREFERRED SOLUTION AND THEIR
ADVICE AND RECOMMENDATIONS ARE
INCORPORATED TO THE MAXIMUM
EXTENT POSSIBLE.
IT DOES NOT MEAN THE FINAL
DECISION IS IN THE HANDS OF THE
PUBLIC COUNCIL SET POLICY
GUIDELINES FOR STAFF TO USE
THEIR PROFESSIONAL EXPERTIZE TO
PRIORITIZE SAFETY STAFF CAME UP
WITH ALTERNATIVES THAT
INCORPORATE PUBLIC INPUT.
I EXPECT MY COUNCIL MEMBERS TO
MAKE SURE THAT STAFF KNOWS THEY
HAVE THEIR BACK AND THIS INTENT
CLEAR TO THE PUBLIC BECAUSE WE
HAVE COMMITTED DIVISION ZERO IT
IS IMPERATIVE THAT WE DO NOT
BACKPEDAL ON THIS.
THE SAFETY OF OUR VULNERABLE
ROAD USERS WITHIN THE PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY IS PARAMOUNT AS
ANN ARBOR RESIDENTS WHO USE OUR
STREETS, SIDEWALKS, BIKE LANES,
MULTIUSE PATHS AND CROSSWALKS
EVERY DAY TO PARTICIPATE RIDES
BIKE RIDE THE BUS CHANGES THAT
AFFECT THE RIGHT OF WAY MUST BE
DECIDED BY THE CITY AS A WHOLE
THROUGH OUR REPRESENTATIVES.
WE MUST NOT ALLOW SOME OF THE
RICHEST PEOPLE IN OUR CITY TO
VETO NECESSARY SAFETY
IMPROVEMENTS SIMPLY BECAUSE
THEY FEEL ENTITLED TO DICTATE
THE DESIGN OF OUR PUBLIC RIGHT
OF WAY IN FRONT OF THEIR
MILLION DOLLAR HOUSES.
I AM DISAPPOINTED BY YOUR
AMENDMENT TO SEE FIVE AND WANT
TO THINK COUNCIL MEMBER KORNEL
FOR VOTING NO.
I THINK THIS DECISION SETS A
BAD PRECEDENT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JEREMY
HAYLIE
.
>> THANK YOU ALL FOR HAVING ME
NAMES CHAIRMAN HALEY I LIVE IN
THE TOWNSHIP AND WHAT I LIKE TO
TALK TO YOU ABOUT IS HOW WHO
READS NEWSPAPERS THESE DAYS.
RIGHT WHERE I USED TO LIVE IN
THE CITY DEXTER THEY'RE PUTTING
IN A BUILDING ON A VERY ODD
PIECE A LOT OF OH THERE GOES
AND HERE'S A QUOTE FROM THE
DEVELOPER FOR WHO'S DEVELOPING
THAT PIECE OF ART AND THIS IS
HOW IT RELATES TO YOU.
>> THE CHURCH STREET PLUME
POINTED OUT THAT DEVELOPERS
THAT HAVE INCLUDED A ONE
THOUSAND ONE HUNDRED FOOT CITY
WATER LINE EXTENDING FROM
ALPINA STREET BEYOND THE PELLOM
TO AT THE ENTRANCE TO THE
WESTRIDGE SUBDIVISION AND HAD A
COST TO BE 500 TO 600 THOUSAND.
AND THIS IS A MASSIVE
INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT THAT
WE ARE THE DEVELOPERS DOING FOR
THE CITY OF EXETER.
WHEN I WENT TO THE COUNCIL
MEETING AND ASKED THEM WHO PAYS
FOR THE MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS
OF SUCH WATERLINE THAT SUCH
DEVELOPER PUTS AND I COULDN'T
ANSWER THAT BECAUSE ESSENTIALLY
THAT DEVELOPER USED THAT AS A
BRIBE TO GET THE PROJECT
APPROVED BECAUSE UNDER THAT
WATERLINE HADN'T BEEN DONE HE
COULDN'T GET HIS BUILDING IN
AND FOR CHURCH HOW THIS RELATES
TO A CHURCH STREET IS THE
DEVELOPER AGREED TO PAY A SEVEN
POINT TWENTY FIVE MILLION
DOLLARS TO THAT ANN ARBOR
HOUSING FUND ONE HUNDRED
SEVENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS.
THE PARK'S ONE HUNDRED FIFTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS TO DOWNTOWN
BATHROOMS.
IT'S THE SAME THING THIS UNFAIR
BUSINESS PRACTICES BY ANY OTHER
DEVELOPER WHO DON'T HAVE THE
EXTRA CASH WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO
DEVELOP ANYTHING.
IT'S BASICALLY EXTORTING
DEVELOPERS WHO HAVE THE MONEY
AND BUTTON ONES WHO CAN'T
AFFORD IT JUST GO ELSEWHERE HAS
PRETTY MUCH TO SAY ON THAT AS
YOU GUYS GO FURTHER ALONG
BECAUSE I KIND OF FIND IT
UNETHICAL BECAUSE AN AREA WHERE
YOU SERVE THE TOWNSHIP OUT
THERE I'VE SEEN THEM GET AN
AERIAL LADDER LADDER TRUCK FROM
THE DEVELOPMENT ON JACKSON
BAKER ROAD BECAUSE THE TOWNSHIP
SAID HEY, YOU'RE BUILDING TOO
TALL.
WE CAN'T FIRE HAPPENS.
WE CAN'T DO ANYTHING SO
SURPRISINGLY THIS WHOLE
TOWNSHIP FIRE DEPARTMENT GOT A
NEW AERIAL LADDER TRUCK AND
JUST HAPPENS EVERYWHERE AND
GOVERNMENT I'VE BEEN NOTICING
IT NEEDS TO STOP.
>> IT'S WHO'S CONTROLLING THE
DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMUNITIES
AT THAT POINT IS CERTAINLY NOT
YOU.
IT'S WHOEVER THE DEVELOPER
COMES IN HAS THE MOST MONEY WHO
CAN PAY FOR CERTAIN THINGS,
GIVE YOU ALL CERTAIN THINGS, DO
CERTAIN THINGS FOR YOU THEN YOU
GO FOR THAT ONE.
>> I LANDED ON THAT.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE A MOTION TO ADJOURN
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCILOR
KERNELL SECONDED BY COUNCILOR
IA DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED